Do you think other people think that you're the Messiah?  I came out of a conference speaking, and when I walked out the door,  this mad lady comes running up to me and tries to kidnap me.  What?  Yeah.  My job is to share a truth that everyone's been told is not real.  It was 19 years ago, on January the 8th of 2007.  I was down and out and lost everything.  Lost my home, and I'm having to apply for free lunch for my kids.  Sick with Crohn's disease.  And if anybody has Crohn's, knows how bad that is.  You know, you're in the restroom 10 times a day.  I was it 20 times a day at that point.  In January of 2007, while fishing with friends in North Carolina,  Chris Bledsoe witnessed a series of bright, intelligently moving orbs in the sky.  That moment doesn't end.  It starts a series of unexpected,  and seemingly miraculous events.  And then my Crohn's was gone.  I had no more sickness.  In the days and weeks that follow, the phenomena continue.  The lights appear again and again,  sometimes at a distance,  sometimes directly over his home.  He reports numerous encounters that don't resemble crafts, lights, or UFOs at all.  But what he describes as a luminous, feminine presence,  deeply unsettling in its art,  is an archetypal familiarity.  Her communication seems to go beyond the cliches and platitudes of normal contact experiences.  They touch on humanity's deep moral decay.  Cycles of civilizational collapse, judgment, the apocalypse, and renewal.  They revolve around humanity reaching a threshold.  I came back excited to tell it.  That's when the next five years of darkness, I talk about in my book,  started.  His UFO experiences only serve to make him more of a pariah  in his local community of Fayetteville, North Carolina,  where fundamentalist Christianity is the only way,  and anything paranormal is considered demonic.  NASA and the CIA show up at Bledsoe's door.  And not just anybody at NASA and the CIA.  I'm talking about a high-level NASA mission controller  who has worked on launches at Cape Canaveral  since the 2000s.  Challenger missions in the 80s.  And he said, I was at the dinner table with the president  and handed me that.  He said that?  Yeah.  Whoa.  And this, yeah.  Scientists, military, and other intelligence officials  follow suit.  They grill Bledsoe on his experiences.  Some imply that certain dates and symbols he's given by the lady  align with things they're already monitoring  and have seen from other authoritative sources.  So they have like a scientific model of how these angels,  angels work at NASA.  They know a lot more than we know than we think they do.  I personally don't know what Chris Bledsoe experienced  and continues to experience to this day.  But I know that his story doesn't sit  at the edge of history forever.  It's either going to collapse under scrutiny  or force us to redraw the map.  In this special episode of American Alchemy,  we have a markedly different conversation  than the one that Chris Bledsoe is used to having.  He took you to Zanesville, Ohio, where you recovered  a little piece of metal?  Yeah.  Do you know who's from Zanesville, Ohio?  Yeah, I do.  T. Townsend Brown, right?  What?  Instead of just retelling his story,  we make some pretty mind-blowing connections from it.  Ones involving secret societies with access to time travel,  anti-gravity experiments done in mid-century America,  space metal with curious properties that interact  with consciousness in weird ways.  What exists on the dark side of the moon?  And what the world will look like in the next decade?  So without further ado, sit back, relax,  and prepare to ascend into the astral plane  with this week's American Alchemist, Christopher Bledsoe.  This has been a long time coming.  I'm here with Chris Bledsoe,  who many call kind of a super-experiencer  because I was just rereading your book, UFO of God,  and your life is really just remarkable.  You've had all these incredible, deep experiences,  and I want to talk about those experiences.  But I also want to talk,  because your story is well-known at this point.  I also want to talk about some of the deeper philosophies  that you've kind of come into based on your experiences  and maybe have kind of a metaphysical conversation.  But I want to start with this very interesting discussion  that we just kind of sparked up as you were walking in,  which is you have this golden pin on your jacket.  What is that pin?  Well,  that pin was given me  by someone everybody has read about, right?  Down at Cape Canaveral, without saying names.  Okay.  And it signifies being off-planet.  So from what I'm told,  the people that get these have been in space before.  So astronauts, pretty much.  Right, right.  And why do you think this person gave that pin to you?  At the time, I had no clue.  I had no clue other than what they were telling me.  It involved taking me into the astronaut crew quarters  and going through a whole thing,  because I was, in other words,  when this thing first happened,  this person from NASA came to my house with a backpack  and a whole lot of credentials  that had everything from Area 51 to the CIA  and all that combined, NASA.  And he tested the whole thing,  tested the whole family with metal.  He put a piece of metal in my hand.  I was the last one to be tested.  So all my, four of my kids and my wife,  they all went into this one room.  So she got Ryan.  He got Ryan as the first one and kind of made it secret.  He took Ryan into a room, tested him,  and said, now you go get the next person, but don't tell them.  So he went out and got each person in the family,  tested them with this metal.  They brought me in last.  And I had no idea what I was doing.  I sat down on the edge of the bed.  It was in Ryan's room.  And he put this piece of metal right here.  And I said, what do you think of that?  I said, well, it looks like a piece of aluminum,  like a postage stamp.  Size, that size, thin.  Was it light?  Very light, yeah.  It was kind of a dull gray.  It wasn't like shiny.  It was aluminum of some sort.  And he reaches in his backpack  and pulls out another piece of metal that was different.  And it was like aluminum foil.  Looked like foil.  And it wasn't creased.  You couldn't crease it, but it would wrinkle,  but it would hold back out.  But it wouldn't crease.  You couldn't crease it.  You could, it would kind of roll up and then straighten out.  But when he put that in this hand,  it somehow or another created this current  that went through where it was communicating.  This part of the metal was communicating  with that part of the metal.  And when that happened,  it caused me to, my eyes to roll back.  And he reached up and snatched it out of my hand real quick  and said, why you?  This is in the book, by the way.  And I had no idea what happened.  He said, why you this close?  I said, excuse me, what do you mean, what I mean?  He said, well, I would have known you were lying  about being taken if you hadn't had a reaction to this.  And he said, I've only ever seen two others  and they were nothing like yours.  That's what he told me.  So that started the next two, three years studying with them.  And I'm being kind to my friend without saying his name,  but you know who I'm talking about.  I know who you're talking about.  Can I say who it is?  Because it's, I think it's Tim Taylor,  who's a NASA mission controller,  who, yeah, his name is now sort of out there.  And yeah, we should definitely be respectful to him  as somebody who doesn't.  Maybe want to do public interviews himself,  but I think he's put himself out there enough to, you know.  So who is this Timothy Taylor figure  showing up in Bledsoe's life?  He's a mysterious rocket scientist  who's done mission control for NASA since the 80s.  That part is not really disputed  and it's well-documented in his autobiography,  Launch Fever.  At one point, Tim Taylor even had a small YouTube account  with videos showing his deep levels of access  to NASA facilities.  He's also taken people like Bledsoe  through Kennedy Space Center.  Religious studies professor Diana Pasolka,  along with others, have said that he's worked directly  with Elon Musk.  But where it gets interesting is that he's also popping up  in the lives of numerous UFO experiencers,  claiming that he's a time traveler and works for an angel.  Basically, he exists at the intersection  between rigorous real-world aerospace work  and totally insane UFO lore.  And that's why he's still amazing.  He's one of American Alchemy's most requested guests.  Some of the things that Tim Taylor told Chris  would wholesale overhaul our understanding of reality,  if at all true.  Really smart guy, like genius level, and, uh.  Really?  Yeah.  I enjoyed his company.  We did a lot of stuff together.  We traveled together.  Um, we were able to recover some metal together.  Wow.  Yeah.  I didn't know that.  Yeah.  I was in Ohio.  In Ohio?  Yeah.  Where in Ohio?  In a little town called Zanes, well.  Zanesville.  Zanesville, yeah.  Zanesville, Ohio.  Yeah.  Do you know who's from Zanesville, Ohio?  Yeah, I do.  T-town's in Brown, right?  What?  He took you to Zanesville, Ohio,  where you recovered a little piece of metal?  Yeah.  A pretty good piece, about that big.  You're sure you went to Zanesville?  Yeah.  In fact, I went in a machine shop, he and I,  and had a piece sawed off the metal,  which he took with them.  And we gave the other piece back to the person that had it.  And I knew the person,  and he wouldn't give it to anyone in the world,  but he called me and he drives up in his yard  and there's this red piece of glowing,  he sees this thing over his house  and it goes away when he drives up,  but there was a piece of red glowing metal in the yard.  He lets it cool, picks it up and puts it in a shoe box  and there it stays for 15 years.  No way.  And when he found out about me and read the story,  he calls me and says,  I got something I want you to see.  And so I called Taylor and he and I flew up there.  This is either engineered to make me excited  or this is the most remarkable story ever.  I almost lost it during this part of the interview.  Zanesville, Ohio, is where Thomas Townsend Brown  was born.  To me, Townsend Brown is the most interesting  historical figure in the 20th century  that no one knows about.  I've independently uncovered an absurd amount of information  that leads me to believe that Townsend Brown  essentially discovered anti-gravity in the 1950s.  He was funded by the same physics patrons  at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill  that sent science down the wrong path  with quantum gravity in 1957.  He was also backed by the highest levels  of CIA and aerospace.  There are even videos of Townsend Brown  at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill  celebrating because his experiments presumably worked.  Here he is with a bottle of champagne.  And we know due to real declassified documents  written by the head of Australia's nuclear program,  Harry Turner, and often cited by UFO whistleblower,  David Grush, that University of North Carolina Chapel Hill  was waist deep in anti-gravity research.  We also have a deathbed confession  of French aerospace representative, Jacques Corneillon,  saying that Townsend Brown's experiments worked in Paris,  in the Montgolfier facility in 1956.  The tests were very, very, very tricky.  It was sensitive to so many things in vacuum.  Finally it worked, so that was a positive result.  And that's just the tip of the spear.  We also have Carl Nell, who helped set up army  the Futures Command, which led all tech modernization efforts  for the army, implying that Townsend Brown  made breakthroughs in the world of gravity.  Jesse's done a number of podcasts  looking into Townsend Brown  and some other very interesting, like, heretical technologies.  So I'd invite people, an unsolicited plug,  to check out some of Jesse's podcasts.  Not to mention NASA's top scientist in electrostatics,  Charles Buehler, literally leaving NASA  to start a propellant plant.  It's a thoughtless, gravity-based propulsion system  that he says is a derivative of Townsend Brown's work.  The term asymmetric electrical pressure  is similar to Thomas Townsend Brown's research  into asymmetrical capacitors.  Those older papers and that older subject matter  is probably valid for most of the point.  I could go on, but I'll spare you.  The fact that Chris Bledsoe was taken to Zanesville, Ohio,  an otherwise completely unremarkable little Ohio town,  is a very unlikely coincidence.  And the fact that the goal there  was to retrieve an exotic piece of metal  seems even more unlikely,  especially given that Tim Taylor  was escorting Bledsoe there.  As you're about to hear in this conversation,  there are tons of other bizarre connections  between NASA mission controller Tim Taylor  and mid-century anti-gravity inventor Townsend Brown.  This episode is sponsored by Superpower.  On this show, we spend all of our time trying  to understand reality,  but most of us are simply guessing  when it comes to our own health.  With conventional healthcare,  you're firing totally blindly.  You go to the doctor, you get a few basic labs,  and you're told everything looks normal.  But that thing that doesn't feel great,  the chronic headaches, the stomach pain, the back pain,  you don't ever really get insight on any of it.  You don't get the proper data you need.  You get no actionable insights and no real plan.  That's why Superpower caught my attention.  Superpower gives you a deep look  at what's actually happening inside your body.  It's a single blood draw, either at home or a nearby lab,  and they measure over 100 biomarkers,  way more than a standard physical.  You get real data on things like hormones, metabolism,  heart health, vitamin and mineral levels,  even environmental toxins, toxins that can accumulate  and cause very bad things to happen in your body.  What I like is that Superpower doesn't stop at the numbers.  They turn those results  into a clear, personalized action plan,  what to focus on, and what not to focus on.  With nutrition, what supplements actually make sense for you,  lifestyle adjustments.  You can even get your true biological age  and can track how that changes over time.  Instead of guessing when it comes to your health,  you finally have a map,  your full health blueprint activated with Superpower.  Not only did Superpower reduce their price to just $199,  but for a limited time,  our listeners get an additional $20 off with code ALCHEMY.  Again, that's Superpower.  Head to Superpower.com and use code ALCHEMY at checkout  for $20 off your membership.  After you sign up, they'll ask you how you heard about them.  Please make sure to mention this podcast to support the show.  And so if there's a connection between this NASA mission controller  who's obsessed with UFOs and this mid-century anti-gravity inventor,  and then you're literally going to Zanesville, Ohio to collect UFO material,  which is where it's a, that's a random place.  And that's where Townsend Brown was born in 1905.  And there's their newspaper, you know,  clippings of him creating, you know,  wireless telegram basically at the age of 12 or something.  That's crazy.  Yeah.  True story.  That's so crazy.  And I can show you the metal.  I'll give you a picture of it.  Can't please?  Yeah.  Can I feel the metal?  Well, I don't own it.  You don't own it.  Okay. Yeah. Tim has it.  I would love, I would love to see the picture.  Yeah.  And learn anything else about the Zanesville trip.  That's just fascinating.  Tim got it originally.  And then Dr. Putoff got another piece of it.  Putoff got another piece.  So I took Tom DeLonge and Lou Elizondo to Zanesville  or to Pennsylvania or Ohio, I mean.  You took them to Ohio, to Zanesville?  I took them to the same guy's house  and got them a piece of it as well.  Were Tom DeLonge and Lou aware of Townsend Brown?  I didn't discuss it with them.  You didn't discuss that with them?  No.  So do you-  But that's where some of their metal came from.  Plus some that I had, I had three pieces of it.  Do you think Putoff knows about Townsend Brown?  Yeah.  He does?  Yeah, I'm sure.  Yeah, he told me he met him.  Yeah.  But that he never, you know,  he didn't know how far he got, you know, sort of thing.  Right, right.  But how, you know, how it can be a little cheeky,  but interesting.  Yeah.  For the audience.  I mean, I'm sure they know this,  but I'm obsessed with this mid-century anti-gravity inventor,  Thomas Townsend Brown, who I am very convinced  made real updates in the world of gravity.  He was a very nuts and bolts, you know, inventor.  And he worked at the highest levels of military government  with every kind of aerospace company you could guess.  I mean, there's an FBI document on him  saying he was the foremost radar expert in the Navy.  And he was in charge of the Philadelphia experiment,  actually, which has all this lore about it.  And who knows whether the, you know,  prima facie story of that is true.  But he was at, you know, Martin Vega,  the year that Skunk Works formed.  Right.  He, you know, knew Curtis LeMay,  knew Bill Lear, the inventor of the Learjet.  Right.  He was being funded by the guys  who were sending physics down the wrong path  while he was doing his, I think,  more vital kind of anti-gravity experiments.  But the kind of subplot of his life  is that gravity and time  are very interrelated in general relativity.  And what I found so fascinating is  I made this whole documentary on Thomas Townsend Brown.  And at the end of the documentary,  I make this connection that Tim Taylor told your son,  Ryan Bledsoe, that he was part of a secret time travel group  in Nassau, in the Bahamas,  and that Thomas Townsend Brown was the president.  And even then, maybe I would have dismissed it out of hand,  but I had become this amateur historian of Townsend Brown,  and he would always go to Nassau, in the Bahamas.  And then if you read Tim Taylor's biography,  Launch Fever, he's in Nassau a lot.  So that does kind of place them both in, you know,  in Nassau at some times.  It's called the Nassau Group.  The Nassau Group.  Yeah.  So he took you to, was the piece of metal,  this UFO metal in Zanesville related  to Townsend Brown at all, or?  Well, there was a lot of conversation about that.  And the amount of activity around that place,  he said, was all part of the land,  because where this metal was found,  it was near the Indian Serpent Mound.  Right.  So they know that there's a lot of activity.  And he told me stories about Townsend Brown.  What did he say about Townsend Brown?  Well, you know, his daughter was doing a book,  and Tim was helping her with that book.  Tim was helping her with that book?  Yeah, he helped write that book, her book.  I didn't know that.  I do know, I found an Amazon review from his daughter  about Tim Taylor's book, Launch Fever.  And this was before anybody knew about, you know,  Tim Taylor, because he hadn't even been written about,  you know, pseudonymously in American Cosmic  by Dana Pasulka.  This is in the early 2010s.  Yeah.  So he was helping Linda Brown write her book.  Write her book, yeah.  I didn't know that.  That's amazing.  And what did he say about Townsend Brown?  Yeah.  What did he say about Townsend Brown himself?  He told me he'd heard stories of these little things  coming and landing in his yard and getting out  and giving him information.  That's real.  Well, at least according to his daughter,  his daughter did a sort of AMA on, you know,  Ask Me Anything on Reddit.  She talked about beings coming down and then entering,  I think it was like, she was in the,  they were in the kitchen with her dad and her,  and they were these sort of pale skinned, you know,  looked alien, like looked from a, you know,  like they were from another planet  or existed in another environment.  And they talked all night.  And then, you know, they wake up the next morning,  she thinks it's a dream.  And then two nights later, they're at dinner  and she brings up the dream and Thomas Townsend Brown goes,  that wasn't a dream or something like that.  Right, exactly.  Wow.  Did he ever insinuate on what the Nassau group,  this time travel group in the Bahamas, right?  Thomas was doing?  He didn't.  He didn't.  He just told me at one point that he thought  I may have to go hide out there a while.  Really?  That was when it really first happened way back.  Because it was a dangerous place.  The whole world was different in 2008.  It was the highest secured thing in the world.  The UFO was more classified higher than the nuclear bomb.  But you would have to hang out in Nassau.  Well, they mentioned that I may have to go there  for protection.  Interesting.  Yeah.  So what's there?  I don't know.  I just, that was all he told me.  You know, he writes in Launch Fever, his biography,  about flying these cargo jets back and forth  between Florida and Nassau.  And I think the guy he was flying with was like selling drugs  and he didn't even know about it.  Like it was like, he was just kind of being like  along for the ride or whatever.  But then he says some really trippy things around.  He goes, time moved differently in Nassau.  But he's saying it like it's like island time, you know?  So it's like, and then you're like, is that coded?  Cause he's telling you, you know,  and Diana Pasolka about the adjustment bureau  and like, you know, timeline hopping.  And then he's saying time moves different  in this Nassau group, in Nassau.  But then he's also telling your son and you,  that he's in a secret time travel group  with Townsend Brown in Nassau.  So I'm like, is he writing in code there?  Probably, yeah.  Those guys are all about, yeah, they're so super secretive.  They can, they'll tell you things and code like that.  It's up to you to get it or not, but yeah.  I want to meet the Nassau group.  How do we do that?  I have no idea.  I don't know how I would find them or why.  I don't know how I would find them or why.  I don't know.  But I love the job and like, I really,  I really learned a lot.  That was just, that was something told to me years ago  and Ryan heard it and it, it never left me.  But as far as where and how and who, I don't, I don't know.  Yeah.  We never got involved or.  Yeah.  Cause it's so, it's so like the world's so interesting.  Cause he also, I believe he told you  and I think Diana Pasolka that, you know,  he said, read the adjustment team  or watch the adjustment bureau.  Which is the original rules.  That's right.  Yeah. Yeah.  The original was a Philip K. Dick book, and then this movie with Matt Damon, and it's all about adjusting little variables to change timelines. And he viewed his role in reality as doing that. And so do you think he actually viewed his role as doing that as part of this sort of timeline adjustment team?  You mean Tim?  Tim Taylor, yeah.  He was the one who told me to watch the movie. He said, that movie was created for a reason. Watch it. It's a lot like that. And then he said, and in that movie, you'll find a character named the Hammer. And he said, and I work for the Hammer, and the Hammer works for God. And I'm like, you've got to tell me more than that. And that's all he would tell me. He said, I work for the Hammer, and the Hammer works for God.  And what do you think?  What do you think the Hammer is?  Well, in the movie, he's like an archangel. He's the guy that the lesser beings couldn't stop what was happening because of love, you know, if you watch the movie.  That's so fascinating.  So they send the Hammer down to take care of it. And of course, I won't spoil the movie, but yeah.  It ends up well.  But yeah.  I mean, do you think that he's in touch with a celestial being, with an angel?  He insinuated that. And I can probably believe that. Yeah. Something. Whether it's an angel or what, I don't know.  Because he seems to show up in a lot of super experiencers' lives. So there are people who've had experiences here and there, and then there are people like you who have repeated experiences.  And a lot of interactions with this other world. And I found it very interesting that he showed up in Charles Hall's life, and then he shows up in your life. I think he knew Whitley Strieber as well.  Did you say Timothy Taylor?  Yeah.  He's a good friend of ours.  Oh, so you know Timothy Taylor.  He came here because he found out about Charles.  And that was when his daughter...  The one who had the baby was like, what was she, maybe in fifth grade when they came the first time?  Yeah.  Why do you think he became interested in your story?  My wife can answer all the questions.  Because he realized that as far as he was concerned, that Charles was the real article, was legitimate.  And as I say, it's really concerned me because I've...  We weren't following Charles' stories.  But then he's the  So what do you think it is with him?  Do you think there's some mandate from the hammer, from this angel or something?  or something to interact with experiencers if he's being truthful about that i would say that's  probably correct there's some kind of mandate guiding him so he's definitely connected i mean  big time do you think he was being truthful or yeah well you you know sometimes you wonder if  it's all uh smoke and mirrors designed to throw you off course you know but i listened to everything  i worked with him for three or four years before diana met him i introduced diana to tim we were  working on crazy stuff like stem cell research and i have no idea what that is and what proteins are  and anything medical right i'm a carpenter and yet i'm reading papers at night that they would  send me and my job was to draw whatever came out of me whatever i saw and so usually every week  i'm sending in some sort of  diagram of cells and all kinds of things whoa yeah as you know on american alchemy we cover a lot of  technology that goes beyond human limits this is about technology that helps the body catch up and  feel good i'm talking about the iris store led face mask a red light therapy system that uses  clinical grade wavelengths to boost skin cell energy production the same exact principle used  in the top recovery clinics in bio-optimism  labs in the world i've been using it most nights 10 minutes while i'm reading prepping for a show  or decompressing it's completely hands-free comfortable and engineered to deliver consistent  light intensity across the face not that uneven scatter most cheaper masks use it feels like your  face is taking a warm bath what it's doing is called photobiomodulation stimulating mitochondria  to repair tissue reduce inflammation and improve circulation you actually feel the calm and  rejuvenation after a second mask and it's not just a mask it's a face mask it's a face mask  i've tested a few of these this one really stands out for the build quality it feels like it was  built in a high precision lab and it's not just a cheap beauty gadget so if you're into real  evidence-based recovery tech this belongs in your setup head to iristore.com and use code jesse25  for an exclusive discount again iristore.com code jesse25 red light therapy has really been a game  changer for me so i hope you love it so it's almost like you were  part of like a secret science program where you were given material to look at you didn't even  have context on the material but you were getting downloads about it yeah and do you think any of  that made it into his you know he had a lot of biomedical patents he had a company called  vivex biotechnologies which he sold for 88 million dollars that's who i was working with  that's your company wow yeah they were creating what's called a biograph which was uh it was based  on metal the metal that they've recovered and infusing it into this um well the particular  and i have video of the operation of a young lady the first operation in the united states  i was a spanish lady that had bone cancer in her thigh and they removed like two inches of the bone  and they wrapped it with this biograph  the stem cells into it and in like 60 days her bone had regrown the pain was gone she could walk  again whoa yeah yeah no i mean that is a operational functional you know company that with that does  real things in the biomedical world and what what makes it fascinating is that maybe the backdrop of  that company is recovered ufo material exactly and somebody like you intuitively downloading  the functionality i don't know how much good i don't know how much good i don't know how much good  i did right but it was uh to come from a carpenter being ridiculed by the whole community to secretly  drawing diagrams for nasa was probably you know it was pretty cool thing well it you know you have  all these rumors of like philip j corso and you know him being involved in you know i think armies  you know uh foreign technology desk and transferring you know uh crash materials from roswell for example to bel  labs so they could you know help build you know semiconductors things like that but what you don't  hear of is uh people download people like yourself who are intuitively kind of tapped in downloading  right aspects of the functionality of some of these technologies that's really interesting well  that um i'm learning i'm learning over the last night it's been 19 years i've been doing this  right a long time and in that time i've learned a lot and i keep learning every day  but there is a great um correlation with the phenomenon guiding us and creating things in our  path and if you're smart enough then you pay attention to that all kinds of things come it's  like it's like being sherlock holmes i'm like oh boy what's next you know so that's kind of the way  i've modeled my life is is letting it guide my path rather than me try to drive the bus i let  i call it the lady right or uh that the phenomenon yeah yeah the it's like the the way is not the  way like you have to you have to or i think there's a concept called wu-wei which is effortless effort  and uh there's sort of sitting back being receptive listening to the signs and then  just kind of you know following following the path and right that's uh that's an art  you know it's it's easy to get into this mode of being attached and trying to over-engineer  your outcomes exactly for example um in the music world i happened to i wrote about something that  happened i was given a message that there um that the the divine world encodes messages within the  music that we listen to and we just don't know it right so it's being channeled by these musicians  and that led me on um i'll tell you how manifestation works is because when i was  given that information i was given five or six songs six five right away one at another point  and when i read the lyrics on it it was like oh my god this is crazy this is crazy i couldn't  believe you hear these songs but you never read the words well that day in 2012  i said lord i wish  i could tell sammy hagar from van halen or robert plant or jimmy page or neil young these are the  guys or metallica right these are the guys that i just said the simple little prayer you know right  off the top of my head lord i wish i could tell them wow this is what i was thinking last year  on my birthday i get a phone call and it's sammy's wife carrie and we become friends  and then it turned into kurt hammett with metallica and then then i get a text from  my friend he said hey chris i'm in the pub in in england and sitting beside me is robert plant and  he's reading your book no way yeah and he that's crazy he sent you a happy birthday and the same  two days later i get a  call from fred durst limp biscuit oh yeah well he's super into it i love the ufo podcast yeah  i've been on his podcast cool so anyhow it just all poured out and it manifested i didn't do it  i didn't seek these people out they they called me and now that's um sammy told me that the song  love walks in he don't even know where the words came from just came out of him and it's this song  is like you have to read the lyrics on it wow yeah well i didn't even i mean it's crazy how much  music is influenced by this stuff like i think paul mccartney one of the beatles had a dream  about a flaming pie right and that was how the the beatles name came about somehow i didn't know it  was going to be spelled differently beetles and then and then it moved into b-a-t-l-e-s  after this flaming pie came down and  the stream or something and so yeah you you have a lot of these sort of stories that's amazing  yeah um do you think that you know because we we often think of like you know the aerospace world  that's interested in a lot of what you're doing is very kind of nuts and bolts focused not right  they don't care about you know downloads or experiences or whatever do you do you do you  feel like they really do they very they are really interested in the phenomenon and they they are  very interested in learning from it as much as they are just you know writing equations on  chalkboards a million percent in fact in the last year i've seen for two years i've seen a  huge increase in the the uh scientists mainstream scientists that you know forever like diana she  was the first phd that would even talk about this right and back then if you even said this out loud  people would laugh and walk away um i really think so yeah yeah so yeah you know it's it's been a  nobody we're talking now um there's over 200 mainstream scientists right now that was the  word i was told by dr estevez and brady estevez oh yeah she's been on the podcast we're still  coming out with something cool yeah yeah but she uh american deep tech she's she's uh told me that  there's at least 200 scientists that want to start working on this thing it's fascinating  and it almost feels like at times the scientists are being coordinated on a higher level  yeah and uh this gets into like the three body problem or you know science fiction novels like  that where you know uh the way that the phenomena speaks to us is through scientific discoveries  innovation through serendipitous meetings between scientists and i'm sure it's the same thing with  art and other creation big time and to the creativity world artists of all kinds  in other words i don't mean to interrupt but if if i had to say of all the people that call me  that the majority of these experiencers a good majority of them will be artists that paint that  make music that act they're different type of people and creative people for some reason they're  the ones that have a lot of this experience and have been for years makes sense that they  be tapped in i think it's more interesting in a sense that somebody like you know i've spoken to  hal put off about this and he goes i always follow the synchronicities and when they stop i know i'm  on the wrong path whatever and it's like this guy is a very serious scientist who's popping up  not only in areas of quote-unquote ufo science but in you know prosaically very interesting science  right so pretty serious guy yeah and we were talking outside  sounds like you're in touch with some lockheed guys too yeah what's what's the deal there well i  have friends everywhere there's no shortage of people from nasa from lockheed from 3m from uh  from all over these scientists but my i haven't have a friend that is a material scientist that  works with this material and um  kind of stays pretty close to me following me about we we travel together and we study together  and doing a lot of things right now interesting yeah who's that i can't do this does he uh work  at a big aerospace corporation or he uh well he yeah you'll see him one day at uh he lives in  silicon valley but you'll see him one day he'll be in a skiff somewhere under an airport  or he'll be in uh at nasa okay or he'll be somewhere in amongst all that um yeah fascinating  yeah it's so interesting he's educated me a lot on this metal and how it acts and and how it acts  differently in zero gravity than it does on on ground level how does the metal act differently  in zero gravity it's um it it has a lot of different things to do with it but it's a lot of  the way of um well just let's just say that the words i heard this metal is much acts much like an  animal and that it is always seeking for energy and seeking to connect and how i got this pen was  being off planet and being tested by that metal knowing that it bonded to me  so that's why this phenomenon is always around it's trying to reconnect all the time  and because you went up on a craft yeah you're somehow connected with the the metal yeah how do  you think you're connected with it into the dna is all i know it's a frequency i think our dna is  transmitted a frequency which is i've seen the papers on it and uh in a radar type frequency  so it's pinging and it's receiving sending and receiving and um so it's always it's always once  it connects with you it's always connected to you it's always connected to you it's always connected to you  on that level and i'm being very careful not to say a whole lot here but i get a phone call if i say  too much right but so yeah but they're clearly trying because they know you have a public  presence they're gonna get asked about this stuff yeah so they want to get it out somewhat right  would be my guess right you know there's a you know there's a scientist named constantine mile  he's in the black forest in germany and he uh talks about uh scalar physics  and its relationship with dna specifically like dna resonance with these exotic electromagnetic  waves that exist in the scalar field um which if you think about it if we are getting  any sort of messages via our dna a transverse hertzian a classic electromagnetic wave doesn't  really make sense because it decays one at one over r squared so if you're in a faraday chamber  you're you know kind of in some remote place or whatever  the decay function on a normal electromagnetic wave would be too stark uh for you to really  receive a lot of information ongoing but if you have some of these more exotic waves that  travel at one over r which a lot of these kind of deeper aerospace scientists believe possibly exist  maybe your body would be able to download and encode a lot more information and they say they  think that the sun is a scalar wave generator  so  maybe the sun is you know constantly spurring evolution and and tim taylor talks about in  diana's book american cosmic that he's his protocols are around you know you know being  in the sunlight looking at the sun well that's it and and um in fact um i've read the paper on it  15 years ago 13 years ago and the thought is that the sun the way it shines at an angle on the earth  is that the sun is a scalar wave generator and the sun is a scalar wave generator and the sun is a scalar wave generator  it creates the green color spectrum which is the center of the color spectrum right  and in that our um the sun is is affecting what's called adt which is the hemoglobin in your blood  and the chlorophyll implant so it when it hits that it starts this energy and it starts creating  life and so the sun is telling everything how to be a pear how to be a grass how to be a tree how to  be a me or you  so all the information of life is coming from that green light from what they're saying it's just  constantly sending all information all encoding to every living thing birds that's where it comes  from yeah it's really amazing i mean there's there's this idea of the anthropic principle  which is why is earth you know this perfect kind of homeostatic like just place that that  fosters the earth and the earth is a place that fosters the earth and the earth is a place that  fosters life and there you know a couple of different explanations for it one is like we've  tried a million different iterations this is the goldilocks so and we just got really lucky or  whatever to to live in the the the one where it's perfect and then there's another one which is this  has been sort of created or simulated you know for for life and if you think about the earth's  magnetosphere the way it blocks cosmic radiation but allows just enough cosmic radiation to allow  for the perfect amount of natural selection to allow for you know for the perfect amount of  real real real evolution um but then the magnetosphere of the earth itself like literally  the schumann resonance fosters human and animal morphology right and and this sort of perfect way  if you put a frog embryo in a faraday chamber where that's blocked it doesn't grow normally  so it's this like the these perfect sort of circumstances so one thing we figured out  this past year i was on um john alexander called me two or three times chris  got it yeah i was on the um this beyond skinwalker show with brandon fugel right so  we were at the monroe institute and they took me in the basement of the lab and put me in a  faraday cage and it's uh it's silent it's walls like the stick with uh you know i'm in i'm in the  basement of the lab in a build in a basically a coffin is what it looked like with ceilings  are copper and the walls are copper so no electrician  magnetism can get in there and so they had all these cameras outside pointing up at the sky  and i'm in this thing and uh they have uh dr thompson from from new york uh neuros neuro phd  and neuroscience was monitoring me and uh he said if you if you sense a ufo over the complex just  point to the ceiling every time i pointed they were filming something above the  building and that from that point on um john and a whole lot of other scientists says this proves  this consciousness it's not a lecture magnetic as consciousness so it's instantaneous it's like  thoughts which is what's creating everything wow yeah yeah well if you think of you know we have  phonons which are sort of you know quantum vibration packets  and then you have photons which are quantum light packets maybe at some point we'll figure out  quantum thought packets or something well that's it it's all thought it's just it's just how it  works with me you know i don't have to go out and speak to get this thing to come i'll just think  about it who knows our thoughts completely and in advance of what you're gonna think you can't fool  it wow at all there's no way  this episode is sponsored by true classic this is one of my favorite shirts it kind of works for  every occasion i honestly didn't think i cared about t-shirts until i realized how many of them  i don't wear they end up just accumulating in your closet most of them look fine on a hanger  then you put them on and something's off they're too boxy they're too stiff they're too long  or they just kind of hang weird that's the problem true classic set out to fix they focus on the fit  which in my opinion is the most important thing when it comes to a shirt shirts that sit right  on your shoulders and chest relax where they should and don't feel like you're wearing  cardboard the material is also extremely soft breathable and flexible you put one on and you  don't think about it again which is kind of the goal i've been wearing their shirts for a while  now and i always reach for them when i know i just want a standard quality shirt when i don't want  to think about what i'm wearing but i know i'll be dressed appropriately for any occasion  you don't look overly formal you don't look disheveled you look just right they started  with men's basics but now they make clothes for women and kids too same focus on comfort and fit  and they keep the prices extremely reasonable instead of charging you for a logo and a story  this company isn't about trends or fashion cycles it's about having a consistent standard of quality  and a few pieces you can always go to that won't let you down so if you want to get some super  high quality shirts go to true classic set out to fix you don't look overly formal you don't look  disheveled you can always go to true classic dot com slash jesse to refresh your wardrobe for  2026. you can also find them at amazon target costco and sam's club thank you to true classic  for sponsoring today's episode i want to go where other people haven't gone in interviews with you  right do you feel like you know when you read like uh and this is going to sound like a crazy  question but like when you read the book of acts and you know learn about jesus do you feel like  he is a state of being that others can get to through kind of you know really spiritual profound  kind of experiences what diana pasulka calls in her book hierophanies revelations and again this  is not to make him out to be this exclusive untouchable you know being or state but like  maybe maybe some people can reach a state and do you feel like maybe you're you're in that state  sort of christ consciousness and that allows you to to have 100 effect on people yeah 100 and um  you know the way i was born and raised a baptist and and married a pentecostal holiness girl and  and you know was very deep into the church and loved it and my wife still goes she was at church  yesterday and um for the day before sunday but the way you know when jesus came  he he wasn't a christian he was just saying the kingdom of heaven is within you you you you can  talk to god yourself and you don't need to pay anybody to have that and i don't think they liked  him saying that a whole lot and his life was cut short because of that well that's one of my  favorite lines it's in an apocryphal you know the gospel of thomas but it's you know if you look to  the sea the fish will precede you if you look to the sky the birds will precede you the kingdom of  of heaven is inside of you exactly and all around you and um you know and then you'll have  hardcore biblical scholars say oh that was written 150 years later and it doesn't matter  that's the words jesus used the kingdom of heaven is within you that spark that divine spark and  and you can yeah do you how do you how do you because like i feel like my on world view and  ontology in some ways matches a lot of yours and what you say and then i think there are a lot of  people out there who are like who is this guy saying that he sees orbs and you know that's  it's 747 or a satellite or whatever what do you say to those people um you know i expect that i've  learned until you see it experience that um you're just uninformed you know it's real it's 100  real and i have shared it with groups as large as a thousand at one time with a pa and as the most  liberal ufo group you know i've ever been to was contact in the desert this past summer right  and here i am being drugged by the hand all day you need to be in this room at this time  this room at that time hadn't eaten all day hadn't been to the bathroom and it's like  seven o'clock at night and i'm finally you know and i deal with room  toys so my energy levels in the evening are low my wife comes in or the uh my assistant comes  and he says oh you got a sky watch at at uh nine o'clock it was eight then i'm like oh my god i  forgot all about that huge pressure it's it's cloudy it's raining in palm springs it never  rains in palm springs right it's sprinkling and they said there's a big group sitting outside  don't you so i like i'm like i took my told my wife i said take me somewhere to where nobody  can see me because if they see me there was always 50 people in line right so she took me over to a  little seating area where it was dark and i laid back and i looked up at the sky and i said lord i  need help i'm stressed tonight it's raining there's a thousand people out there wanting  to see something and suddenly when i said that  my wife sat beside me i heard this this telepathic voice say don't worry about the rain it'll just  get more interesting and then i saw these three orange orbs come down under the clouds and this  digital digit that said 9 45 just flashed right up i said okay there'll be three orange orbs at 9 45  so i got up i walked over to the center of a thousand people they're in a big circle and i'm  in a 20-foot circle that they kept that where i could walk around in it with a microphone and so  i told the whole group an hour in advance i said at 9 45 there'll be three orange orbs that appear  underneath the clouds and exactly at 9 45 it happened whoa do you have video of that yeah wow  and you can hear me on the microphone it's all recorded predicting an hour in advance i didn't  predict it i saw it it shared it with the whole group and i was like oh my god that's so weird i'm  going to watch it with me wow yeah that's so fascinating it's like the fatima prophecy but  compressed and at a ufo conference but you know what i did i'm at a ufo conference in there you  know some of them's got tinfoil hats on and they have all these galactic federation well i yeah  it doesn't compute with me right so i basically held a little church  at the most liberal thing i didn't not church but i said look we're just going to  say a little prayer here this is how it works for me there is no summoning all this thing you hear  about summoning these things that's if they're having negative experiences whoever's doing this  well that's why because you're you're open to anything coming but i always use a little prayer  and so i just told him i said i believe that the holy spirit is this beautiful lady that  gave me this information and i'm just going to ask her right now to share her presence with us and  that's the only thing i said what do you think of because it seems like you're coming at this from a  very spiritual perspective there are rumors that the legacy ufo program itself uses protocols to  attract ufos to come in sometimes use directed energy weapons against them get them to land  psionically through what they call psionic assets so that would be finding  somebody maybe similarly tapped in as as you are but who's sort of not maybe come about it in the  more kind of earnest spiritual way through life experience that you did maybe they just have some  ability or maybe they've been given a protocol or something what are psionic assets um when we  look at collecting data one of the areas that we look to collect data is through a psionic asset  which is an individual who's trained in  remote viewing um psychic abilities telekinesis that type of thing which is basically through  a number of different um protocols can transition into a place where they are highly sensitive  to their environment from from the point of view of consciousness through a consciousness field  how do you feel about that attracting crafts to come down trying to derive material from these  crafts or get downloads from them uh but for like defense you know kind of military industrial  complex purposes well i've been uh you know i work in and around a lot of those people and  i've had a lot of proposals that uh and you wouldn't believe um even proposals if i could get  it to come down could they shoot at it i'm like absolutely not yeah that's not going to happen  with me do you want to study it what i what i see  is um just want to communicate with us um you hear about all that but i've not seen any of it  i haven't seen the results so there's a lot of talk out there but not a lot of data to show right  where i show the data i take a thousand people out or 500 out and we get things that appear to  have wings orange glowing beings as many as 20 at the time fly 25 feet over our head  and appear out of thin air, come right over us, glowing.  And so it's very spiritual and sacred to me.  And I would never, but as far as, you know,  I heard some of the things on Age of Disclosure  and they were talking about negative parts of it,  orbs being negative.  I've never experienced that ever in my whole 19 years of doing it.  But in fact, you talked about the book of Acts  when Saul was on the road to Damascus.  What was it that appeared and blinded him?  What was it?  It was an orb.  Whoa.  Flashed him, said it flashed around him, blinded him.  It was a ball of light, same thing.  And so, you know, it's all in your thought process.  If you're grounded with that humbleness and earnesty and you love,  then you're going to get there.  But if you put something out, I mean, if we want aliens, right?  We create this in our brain.  If we want aliens with red guns,  if you get enough of the population to think on that,  that's probably what will manifest.  What do you think the orbs are?  It's this sort of perennial question.  Because I think a lot of people have these experiences.  I think a lot, you know, they'll meditate,  they'll be deep in prayer and they'll see something come.  I have an experience like that  where I was doing holotropic breath work with a friend  and I was doing a lot of breathing work with a friend.  And I was doing a lot of breathing work with a friend.  Silver Lake, California, of all places,  like the last place you'd ever expect to see anything.  And we saw two metallic orbs show up.  And it doesn't feel coincidental that like, you know, for him,  I think it was his first time doing holotropic breath work.  And, you know, that's supposed to get you into a state  where your brain, I think, endogenously releases DMT  and you're in this kind of heightened spiritual state.  What do I think it is?  What do you think they are?  Well, I'm very careful to try not to label  because it's all speculation.  You know, you asked the question, what do you think?  Well, I'm guessing, right?  All of us are.  And nobody's experienced it, I don't think, any more than I have.  I see it just about every day of my life.  And it comes in my house.  Orbs appearing in my room, over my chairs  and flying through the house and stuff.  So you think you experience it more than anybody in the world?  I haven't seen anybody with the data.  I have.  And show me the data and then we'd, you know what I'm saying?  But people are seeing it now.  And I predicted that.  In my book, you'll read where I wrote about a certain incident  that was going to happen in the future,  which was when Iran and Israel began to exchange missiles at one another.  At that point is when these balls of light,  these orbs were going to start appearing  and revealing themselves to the world.  I wrote about that.  And that was...  Something I've talked about for 10, 12 years.  And then look, last November.  These drones, supposedly drones that show up,  those aren't drones.  They're orbs coming out of the sea,  appearing and they're saying, stop.  They de-escalated and they kind of settled.  They started putting F-35s in Poland.  All of a sudden, now there's orbs all over Europe.  So what do you think the orbs are?  Based on...  The patterns that I've seen.  I'm saying, I'm guessing, right?  But 19 years of research and prayer,  simple prayer, that mindset.  Don't have to say it verbally, just think it.  Lends me to believe it's something connected to our thoughts,  very caring, loving, and our beings.  I can share a video with you of an orbs.  Orbs with a lady standing beside me and another lady.  I got one on each side.  This one has cancer, stage four kidney cancer, Jesus.  And she's missing one kidney already.  Year and a half later, it metastasizes in her other kidney.  She calls me.  So she's worried about her...  The chemo's not working.  So she had a very poor chance of survival.  So she calls me and comes to my house.  This was in 2015, I guess, and 2013, maybe.  And she brings her girlfriends, like five of them.  So it's all of those, myself, my wife, and some of my children,  and three Native Americans, they're outside.  They just happened to show up at the same time, friends of mine.  And so I got them to kind of do a spiritual song  that they do for healing for her.  All of a sudden, in the video, you'll see an orb appear.  And it comes zooming right up to me.  And all of a sudden, it flashes.  And out of that comes a tall, glowing figure,  about six to seven feet tall.  And then it just kind of moves over out of the camera  right in front of this lady.  And then she goes to get her scan on Monday  and has no more cancer.  What?  Yeah, and I have it on video, so...  I would love to see that video.  I'll share it in a little bit with you.  That would be amazing.  That's amazing.  So 19 years, I have more data about this  and more than most people can imagine.  Would she ever go on record and talk about this?  Yeah, probably.  Wow, I'd love to speak with her.  Yeah.  This is so amazing.  So this is why I always lend to the spiritual side.  You know, I believe if there's what is an angel,  it's a messenger.  I don't know what it is.  I know that it is, to me,  and it could be just a fractal of consciousness itself,  which that word means God.  In the end, it comes back to the creation or the creator,  that mind.  So maybe these lights are just fractals of that,  but I don't know.  Do you believe Tim Taylor is a time traveler?  Well, I'm guessing.  You know, people say that, but it's possible.  It's very possible.  We were talking.  Right before we were rolling about intersection points,  points where maybe you can hop between timelines or something.  What does that mean to you?  Well, you know, it's just hard to wrap your head around.  There's no words for that.  The vocabulary for all this is just, like, very small.  But, yeah, I'll have to think on that one, what it means.  I was having a dream the other night  about that, about timelines changing, shifting.  And it was such a weird dream, but it was like, you know,  it's like, there's stories, this is really random,  but like Bill Murray, the actor, he'll walk around New York City  and he'll like take a French fry from somebody,  eat it, you know, in their restaurant or whatever.  And, you know, it was just like literally like off the street.  And then they'll look at him, they'll be like,  that's Bill Murray, like taking my fry or whatever.  And then he'll look at them and he'll go,  no one will ever believe you.  And that's what a lot of the phenomenon feels like.  It feels like self-concealing, you know, it's like the perfect,  I'm sure the perfect amount of the video that you described was cut off  where open-minded people will believe it and then some hyper-skeptic will not.  And there's, it's, it's like, there is always some little stigma left  on the evidence that you do have that is fully debunkable.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And it's, it's always like this, like A and not A.  That's the phenomenon.  It is.  It's messing with you.  And it's designed, it's doing that because there are three kinds of people.  Hmm.  Now I've, I've talked about this many times.  There are three types.  Yes.  Probably more.  Okay.  But there are people that can see, right?  They can see this.  There are people that I can teach to see.  Hmm.  And there are people that can never see.  Oh, damn.  They'll never see it because they're skeptical.  And when you're skeptical about this, you will never be in the club ever.  It will not let you in because it doesn't want to mess with your free will.  But skepticism is also good.  Yeah.  I think.  But some skeptics can come seers, right?  Sure.  But there are some that can never.  Yeah.  Their brains are wired, um, you know, to where it's a block.  You do need some filtering mechanism.  You need some, something in your brain being like that.  You have to.  It feels wrong or false, you know, what's the phrase, you know, your mind can be so  open, your brain can fall out or, you know, so how do you view that?  Cause discernment seems like an important, you know, part of waiting  your way through this topic.  20 years of it, 19 years with me when it first happened.  Um, all I know is that I was afraid when I was looking at it in the broad daylight,  it came out of the sky in daytime.  It wasn't a dream.  And it wasn't at night.  It was in the broad daylight and they came and they took me.  So that program to me in a way there was never doubting, ever.  Doubting describe this whole experience.  So you, they were, you said broad daylight and they came and took you.  Who's they and they, whoever they are.  Um, and this is in my book, uh, UFO of God, by the way, I haven't, I haven't plugged it yet, but, um, it was 19.  Years ago on January the 8th of 2007, uh, will be 19 years.  I was down and out and lost everything, lost my home, my income.  I had too many houses on the market.  I was building a hundred homes a year and had been for 19, 20 years.  And the world trade center thing happened and then the housing bubble bust.  And so I found myself in a place where I was.  It living in a, a million dollar home on the golf course.  And now I'm in a mobile home with no income and I'm having to apply for free lunch for my kids.  That's how bad it got.  And so I'm crying out to God, walking along, uh, I had gone fishing at the river with my son and three other guys and they wanted to fish.  And so I walked away, they were sitting on the bank of the Cape river river, and I walked up the way we came.  Yeah.  And we were down in the bottom, you know, you cross a big cornfield and then you go down in the river bottom.  So that about a quarter mile down in the bottom is where they were sitting on the bank.  And I told them, I'm going to walk up to the field and look for deer or whatever, just wildlife, not telling them how depressed I was and where I was.  I mean, I was struggling bad, sick with Crohn's disease, had it 18 years suffering with it.  And.  Um, anyhow, I walk up to that field and it was just about 10 after five when I started up that way, took about five minutes to walk, maybe eight.  And when I got to the top of that hill, there, they were two of these big balls of fire, like flaming 40 foot round, red, orange, glowing balls of fire.  And the fire is going around it.  And these little tips were shooting off.  Uh,  They were really.  Flames.  And there were two of them side by side, very low down, probably a couple of hundred feet above the trees and about 300 yards away.  And I'm at the back of the field and they're up at the road, the highway, you know, that's where they were.  And I'm sitting there looking at them scared to death.  First I was mesmerized like what in the world.  I'm a commercial pilot, still have my tickets.  And.  Um, so I knew right away.  what we were looking at wasn't anything fort bragg or any military anybody had and so the chill came  over me it's like oh my god what am i looking at so this is my mind went from amazement to fear  suddenly and then um i guess five ten minutes sitting there watching it i got so afraid i  wanted to run so i turned my body and pointed down the hill to go run down to where my son was on the  bank of the river and i had to look back one more time so i turned to look back before i went to run  and when i did the third one a third one above me was invisible it was not visible it just appeared  and shot right straight down in front of me 5 15 5 30 in the evening in january it's not dark  four hours later i come walking back to the river where they were and  my son was missing he wasn't there he had gotten lost looking for me on foot  i couldn't compute any of that how i had been gone for 20 minutes is all i could think  and they were fussing at me where have you been we've been looking you all night and  it took me it took me a long time to reconcile that and then macron's was gone i had no more  sickness and if anybody  has crohn's knows how bad that is it's uh it's the worst thing you know you're in a restroom  10 times a day i was at 20 times a day at that point in my life  so i'm suffering with sickness and suffering mentally and depressed and finding all of it  i'm at the very bottom crying out lord help me what do i do you're living in a relatively small  town in north carolina where you were you know very successful and known by all your community members  and you were at the depths of kind of despair and i'm sure feeling like a pariah or something  yeah your community oh yeah i came back excited to tell it and that's when um basically the next  five years of darkness i talk about my book started and it was the pitchforks came out  the holy water came out yeah and the social services came to my house trying to remove me  from the house but real quick yeah so you said that you thought it was 20 minutes had gone by  it was four hours it was four hours and do you remember what you had experienced did you recover  the memory i recovered quite a bit of them how'd you recover them um a time and through hypnosis  and a doctor from harvard helping me and then you got to wonder is it all real but i can tell you  they talk telepathically it was the doctor from harvard dr  o'connell okay his name and is he um he's done this with other experiences yeah he was trained  by john matt that's amazing yeah i didn't know there was a doctor at harvard currently who was  trained by so john mack was the head of the harvard psychiatry department yeah who saw a  lot of experiencers and originally he got into it because he was interested in missing time  right it's like all these people are coming with missing time and then he had been childhood  friends synchronistically with bud hopkins who was very interested in experiencers abductees so he  knew that had some experiences that he had so he started to trust them and when he got the iar at harvard john mack das michael o'connell well he's dead now he died oh that's unfortunate  i was literally gonna be like i want to interview yeah he's uh he was a i loved the guy i mean we  bonded really close until he died he lived in south carolina so i lived you know hour and a  half from him so we visited a lot wow i think another thing for people to understand if they  are skeptical of something coming out in a hypnotic regression  these experiences are so traumatic they're so foreign to you when they happen right if you look  at any other extremely traumatizing experience just in the world right um a woman who's or you  know somebody experiences child abuse or like something extremely you know serious uh uh that  just shatters your whole being you will repress that memory yeah and it will often have you know  you'll have fragments of it you'll have shards of it uh but it'll be like broken glass and it will  you'll need techniques like this at times to recover those memories so so this guy michael  o'connell works with you right and what what do you end up recovering well what he you know what  he did i'll give you a short on what he did he he came and he started just dialogue talking and  told me that he knew from his studies that  they can tend to pack a lot of information in your mind and um it's locked away in there and  that it if you were to remember it all at one time it'd probably drive you crazy so he um  i can tell you i had severe headaches if i tried to think past that missing time i would pass out  i did it over and over when they were questioning me i'd get to a point and i  think anymore and the headaches would come so bad i would pass out you know there's a really great  book by my mind's just going to all these crazy places but there's a book called healing back  pain by paul sarno it's this amazing book that healed a lot of people's backs psychosomatically  because it it talks about chronic pain as being adaptive from a psychosomatic perspective  and so maybe even this was the case with your crohn's disease that you were facing where it is  like and you know i was just thinking how did it happen you know and i came back and i was like  okay well i've been there me and i'm a couple years and i've come to a point where i don't  think anything's going to happen but i think it's really great and i think it's like i'm  learning something so it's nice to me not being twenty years old and trying to write to you and  trying to think about the problems of this life but but just being able to go back to the time  and be able to talk about the pain of these things and then just your mind going all in and  i mean you know it's it's it's auu um i think that's what i was going to do uh uh yeah you're  at a time, not too much, but you'll remember it all. That's what he said. Immediately when he  did work with me, within days, I started having these nightmares and dreaming and speaking in my  sleep and talking to my wife and kids were videoing me into bed. They'd hear me saying all  kinds of crazy things about my experience. But what it was like, Jesse, was like a virtual tour.  In other words, they took me, the first thing I remembered was seeing Egypt. Why? Over the pyramids,  looking over the pyramids and seeing the Sphinx, that's all I remember, that and seeing this  temple, Hathor's temple, and all the animals and the birds. It was just like this video that was  playing in my head. It was just like, oh, my God, I'm going to die. I'm going to die. I'm going to  die. I'm going to die. I'm going to die. I'm going to die. I'm going to die. I'm going to die. I'm going to die.  So, you know, I studied everything I could study about that. I went to scholars like Dr. Gilbert and  learned from Robert all kinds of sacred geometry.  I didn't know you learned from Robert Gilbert.  Yeah, he lived in Nashville right close to me.  Famous Rosicrucian scholar.  Interesting.  Loved the guy.  Wow. Yeah, he was very sad. He was, I think, a nuclear chemist.  chemist and he just passed away from cancer very recently this year i believe yeah this year  but a world of knowledge and he helped me a lot um understanding the symbols i saw about egypt and  then you know 2019 comes along i write about this in my book um i'm sick with rheumatoid arthritis  now and i've been on chemotherapy for like six seven years i'm down to 150 some pounds  walking on a cane and now i'm migrating to a wheelchair that's where i was in 2019  diana and tim were in the vatican archives in 2017 and i was supposed to go with them but i  couldn't i was sick and they were oh you were supposed to go on that trip well it could have  been arranged yeah it was all about me the  the whole thing when they went there they had a ceremony in the vatican it was supposed to be a  ceremony for you yeah they had a ceremony they put my picture in the picture of the pope on  outside of the archives and then they placed my photo between the books of galileo and copernicus  really yeah to be there forever no way yeah sure did do you have you have photos of this  i did could you send that wow this is amazing yeah so so and who was was  you  tim taylor prompting them to do this ceremony or i think diana's connection to the vatican and  this the lady i speak about you know i here i come in 2012 having an experience with this lady  this beautiful glowing lady that um boy that was something too because that was at the end of five  years and i was fighting the government the social services for my sanity  um but real quick so because you were describing your first experience that right you know o'connell  helped you get out and so you're you're around the pyramids you see the sacred geometry which  you know uh dr uh robert gilbert helps you kind of decode right did you decode anything did you  notice any sort of messaging yeah i did i started seeing likeness and they're the the way they  portray their deities is um they're they're they're they're they're they're they're they're they're they're  um and the whole matrix of the thing you know it's like when jesus was born it said uh an angel  came and said go to egypt right well we don't realize that egypt was controlled by greece  for 500 years before that right so perfect fit for him to go there and to grow up there and  when you start seeing the similarities between the two that is pretty much the same thing and  the stories between  between the two and the similarities between the two and the similarities between the two and the  similarities between the two and the similarities between the two and the similarities between the  trinity jesus and the trinity and then  trinity jesus and the trinity and then  trinity jesus and the trinity and then raw and horus and the whole thing they  raw and horus and the whole thing they  raw and horus and the whole thing they have a try  have a try  have a try try it there right but their  try it there right but their  try it there right but their their deities are  their deities are  their deities are portrayed as animals and birds  portrayed as animals and birds  portrayed as animals and birds forces of nature this is what  forces of nature this is what  forces of nature this is what dr gilbert spoke about  dr gilbert spoke about  dr gilbert spoke about it's all about everything nature and  it's all about everything nature and  humanity and so and then you read the story of ezekiel and the will within the will right he  walks between two of the cherubim it says and he walked between them and there he met an angel  right and what was it it had places of animals and only one part human so it's it's not like grandma  with wings and a beautiful robe right it's just these things are creatures and they're it's always  did you see these creatures no only I've studied them okay I saw the creatures yeah drew them yeah  when they were little glowing beings about this tall but those seem more of the variety of the  extraterrestrials or aliens people kind of experience well they say that until you read  Daniel chapter 10 when it talks about an  angel that he saw and when I described this little being I said he looked like glass he was  shot so shiny his whole body was glowing like he had a suit on that was gleaming like glass  you see this alien in the in the craft or I saw it standing from me to you from me and this was  in the on the in like the woods yeah near your house yeah and I wrote about this and um and he  had a little triangle triangle on his chest yeah funny there's a triangle right there right  yeah and he had a little triangle on his chest yeah funny there's a triangle right there right  oh there you go i was thinking that when you were like look at my little pendant  i was like well was that an homage to the triangle from the alien being that was from nasa  and two i have multiple videos and if we go sky watching at some point you'll see  the phenomena will always try to line up in a triangle or in threes interesting so it's like  maybe this is telling us something right what is that i i don't know i'm it's all speculation i'm  learning what else did robert gilbert tell you because he did seem like a person who was very  tapped into oh yeah kind of deeper esoteric truths yeah a lot i learned a lot from him that that  helped me understand that this world is so far more complex for example um he described pendulums  if you go to egypt  and you dig in the soil there the most artifacts that they find under the ground in egypt are  pendulums is that true yeah that's the most frequent art that's the most frequent they  find the millions of them and so he explained to me what they knew and how the the people  that set washington up they did the same thing why they have an obelisk in washington why they  have one in central park why is there one in france and in england they have and they went  to egypt and got those things and brought them back and stood those stones up well you know if  you look at uh charles lon font you have all this kind of freemasonic symbolism around dc  and that is definitely derived from ancient egypt in fact i've been inside of this like free masonic  temple in dc and and by the way i'm not a freemason right and i wouldn't be saying this obviously right  it's it's just you might as well be in like an egyptian temple or something it's all egyptian  symbology yeah and so you think there's like a link between i think there's it's a big mystery  but there's a link some yeah some way or another wow yeah so interesting and then the other  connection for you with ancient egypt is so you're around the pyramids and you see these symbols but  and then you obviously encounter these beings but later you encounter the lady right and she  describes herself as hathor is that right well that was one name she is she she said she had  many names and she had been called many things throughout the world in other words diana demeter  isis hathor hera um the virgin mary everything she's had many names throughout  history and by every culture and the way she explained it to me helped me understand  a religion in a different way how people conceive  you know like the the taoist or the the muslims or the the catholics or whoever  only imagine god in their minds we all do we imagine that and it turns into an ugly thing  because  religions tend to think they have the skivvy on god and therefore we're going to go to war with  you because you don't believe like us that's that's the problem that has to stop this is the message  she told me that she had many names throughout history and that god is god and we don't know what  we think we know and we need to sit back and reanalyze and you know be good children and  or we're going off the cliff  that's kind of the thing she told me and she told me about the missiles that was in 2012.  but um it was so much there i came out of the in 2012 telling it like right away  what that that she explained to me and you received a prophecy about 2026 as well right yeah  yeah and what was that well she said um and i had no idea what it meant still don't  know what it meant but i had no idea what it meant but i had no idea what it meant but i had no idea  when the star of regulus which is a blue star when it appears red on the horizon  at the dawn before the sun comes up and the gaze of the sphinx in other words  i saw it in a vision the whole thing you can see the sphinx facing east and this thing's  just cresting the top she said when that happens that will be a sign that ushers in a new knowledge  for humanity so does that mean the return of jesus or the return of christ consciousness it could  and i i think that's possible but it's it marks a sign she said to where the the  the darkness would be exposed and the truth would be revealed  so i think we're going to learn something over the next couple of years that you know and this  are we all a result of that i have a question about that will we go further as i go through um  that was the question um so does that mean that a生きり thate will come in the faith amaranthicSH kindness to the battlefield and the truth will come out of it if we do this through this journey so these will be You are permitted to examine cleaning uv Fresn покаそう 충분히, 那是在宣說,처�大唔发生ел戀来的很深计证,當我們用튃正专与導割来!?  This was 12 years ago I said this, 13 years ago, 2012, right?  And how when these missiles started flying and the orbs started appearing,  that got a lot of attention on me real quick.  Yeah, it's funny.  I'm caught between two minds.  One is, you know, I think even the book of Matthew,  it's something like nobody knows apocalypse other than God.  Paraphrasing, but yeah, nobody knows the day.  And then on the other hand, it does feel like just this gestalt sense of like,  things are getting weirder.  Dark truths are being revealed, ongoing.  It feels like it's already started.  And it feels like we're on the verge of some sort of paradigm shift.  Yeah, we are, definitely.  Yeah.  Yeah, I agree with that 100%.  And I think everybody sees something coming and a new knowledge just coming  and a new shift.  And that things that I know that, imagine a world without oil.  So you think we're going to have free energy at some point soon or something?  Imagine the world without rockets.  Right.  So that kind of knowledge alone would change everything.  Right.  All of humanity.  And so that's in our future.  Well, that was Thomas Townsend Brown's vision.  You know, a world beyond rockets that, you know,  he had this model of electrovelocity.  Right.  Which connected electromagnetism and gravity, which, you know,  in kind of our standard physics is, you know,  we don't have a link between those two things.  Right.  And if you were to get a link, if the input was pure electromagnetism or,  you know, electrical, and the output was some sort of gravitational perturbation,  that would be paradigm shifting.  Exactly.  I mean, you'd get well beyond what SpaceX is, which is extremely inefficient.  You know, most of, I believe,  the Starship, their latest rocket is, I think it's 5,000 metric tons,  and an extremely high percentage of that.  I mean, the payload capacity of it is like 150 tons.  So that ratio alone, it's all fuel.  The whole thing is fuel.  That's not efficient.  That's not alien interstellar space travel.  It doesn't make sense.  Well, I imagine a day that we won't need those things.  Mm.  In fact, they probably already had that.  Do you think they did?  I think so.  Really?  I think it's possible.  So why not, because, why not let it out then?  Because it, it would change everything.  Mm.  It could, it could create, it's something that has to be given slowly.  It's too disruptive.  Too disruptive, yeah.  It would definitely be destabilizing for institutions.  Exactly.  You know, if you had, say right now we're paying, I'm just going to throw fake numbers out there,  but $15, you know, per kilowatt hour.  Right.  For electricity or whatever, if that reduced to 10 cents per kilowatt hour, a whole lot  of institutions would kind of crumble, corporations would experience a lot of, like for the people  who are like there, it wouldn't, you know, destabilize things.  I think that's crazy.  I think it would.  No.  I think it'd be very positive.  Well, it would be in the end, but imagine the oil tankers, the thousands of them or  refineries and all the jobs that's involved with it.  Sure.  Sure.  Yeah.  But then the, imagine the abundance.  The abundance on the other side.  Yeah.  All of those people, their quality of life would be dramatically, you know, better.  So is that the new knowledge?  I don't know.  But I think that is a, there's a whole lot of things that are going to come forward that  have been hidden from us.  And the main thing is the truth that we're not alone.  Yeah.  I mean that, well, that's clear to me, you know, I think that's, that's definitely a  thing.  And so I believe next year we'll be closer to that than ever.  And the word apocalypse, by the way, you know what that means?  Yeah.  Unveiling.  Yeah.  To reveal a secret.  To reveal a secret.  Yeah.  Yeah.  That's all.  And people think when you hear that, and if you look on Google, it says the ultimate destruction,  the end, you know, it's lying to us.  That's not what the word means at all.  It means to reveal that which has been hidden.  And it's, it's the veil thinning.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I think for some people that will be very good and for other people will be very bad.  It depends on your orientation to it.  Right.  And I think it does have this connotation of, you know, the Beezlebub coming down and  breathing fire onto everybody, sorting people and whatever.  But like, I think if you were oriented in a, in a good way, spiritually, you know, I  don't think it'll necessarily be bad for you.  I also don't even, you know, we're talking about it like it's one, you know, crazy event  with these.  It's like divine beings, maybe it's like a slow moving.  That's exactly the way I see it.  It's not like snap your fingers and something.  We're not going to wake up on Easter or whenever that time happens.  Yeah.  I'm torn by the way, because for eight years I wrote and talked about this alignment  being in September or somewhere in the fall.  Cause that was the date given to me by some people into astrology.  And then they come back right when I go to write my book and say, oh, we made a mistake.  Yeah.  It's at Easter.  And I thought, well, that sounds plausible because the lady's always coming around Easter.  I have this and saying experiences every year at Easter.  Are you still having them?  Yeah.  That's amazing.  So you still speak every year and you think it's the same, the Virgin Mary Hathor Demeter.  You think all of these, I think it's the Sophia, the wisdom, the Holy spirit.  So that would be kind of the Gnostic version or something.  Yeah.  Yeah.  That's, that's who I think that this, this being is, it was a spirit and it was definitely  holy in her presence.  Right.  And so, and, and when she physically impacted me because the wind blew me backwards to the  ground, it was such a blast of wind that blew me down.  And I started researching that and the word spirit is the wind, right?  And the word Holy spirit is the breath of God.  And I didn't know what it was, but it was the wind that affected me and the power from  it.  This, this cow came over me, but the wind pushed me back.  What does she look like?  Look like the most beautiful 35, 40 year old woman you've ever seen.  It's just glowing and, um, typical Virgin Mary apparition type thing.  And, you know, this thing, this, this, this spirit appears in every country.  It appeared to the native Americans.  And, and, um, and that, that's, that's what I'm talking about.  in the wild west back you know they called her the white buffalo calf lady the egyptians called  her hathor and earlier before met and the birth mother the the creator in proverbs in the bible  chapter 8 and 9 talks about wisdom it's the name of the chapters and it talks about and she was  created before the earth was created before the beginning of time wow so who is she i don't know  but that's my thought what was the feeling that came over you when you saw her when you see her  regularly it's uh when i first saw her it was it was very impactful because the the cow ran me over  so i had this extreme fright to start with and then i land on my back and i roll over  to get up and run and there's this beautiful woman so i went from extreme fear to oh my god  what is this in front of me is the cow running you over part of the whole thing is that that  was part of the her coming at me she came at me at night out of the darkness as a wind the wind  hit me and as i'm going backwards to the ground i see a translucent cow run over top of me and i  could see stars up through the thing i'm like oh my god and uh and i was frightened so bad  landed on my back i turned to get up and run and there's this woman about from here to that camera  three feet off the ground hovering and she looked at me and she said you know why i'm here  and i'll tell you why she said that because five years had gone by 2007 to 2012  and i had been beaten down and broken by the community my children were falling apart  the schools the teachers were calling them to the  side is your dad crazy we hear about all this are you all right  somebody from there called social services on me and i had to fight to be at home with my children  it was that bad so five years of that i walked out on easter saturday night easter of 2012.  sunday morning's easter right and i shouted to this guy thank you for saving me thank  you for healing me but you've ruined my life now my children are affected and  and I have caused them great harm, and I'll never speak about this again.  Even though I had the desire, they put this in me like the famous movie  Close Encounters where you see he's making a mashed potato mountain in dirt,  and he's throwing it in the wind and bushes, and he's creating devil's sour, right?  He didn't know what it was, but it was in his head.  So I was that guy.  I had to tell everybody.  And the more I told it, the more trouble I got myself into.  And what you're referencing with your family is Junior, your son,  who had gone looking for you, also saw beings, was really shocked at what he experienced.  It was the community that caused him to want to leave home.  Really?  Yeah.  Yeah.  He was 17 years old, and my right hand was with me everywhere I went.  And we'd come home.  Tell him.  I was telling the world about it, and now the whole community has come on us.  And so five years into it, I'm out telling the heavens I quit.  I'll never talk about it again.  And then she appears and says, you know why I'm here.  This is your burden you must bear.  You have to tell what you know, and if you do, I will allow you to video record  and feel my presence and share it with others.  The lady said that.  She told me that.  And are you going?  Well, let me tell you, from 2007 to 2012, I had zero data.  I was out every night with a camera trying to get pictures to save myself from the community, right?  The more I tried, the less it would let me film it.  It would be hovering in the trees behind my house.  I'd pull the camera out, and it would vanish.  Yep.  Every time.  So I was angry about that.  I'm trying to prove myself sane.  And my child is now left home because the community has just been tough.  So she's like, you're not going to quit.  I'm going to help you.  So from that point forward, I started being able to film it and sharing it with anybody.  And I've amassed terabytes and terabytes of data, video, photo, audio, and never a picture until 2012 when she came.  Okay.  Why do you think these guys from NASA are showing up at your door?  We mentioned Tim Taylor earlier.  He's a NASA mission controller.  But Hal Pauvenmeier also showed up originally.  And I think you, Ryan, your son, mentioned that kind of at the end of his life, you realized that he was both CIA and NASA.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And so what do you think their interest in all of this is?  There are a lot more NASA guys.  That was just two of them.  Really?  I had dinner with Hal's wife this weekend.  She came from Florida to Chris Jr.'s wedding.  Oh, wow.  Yeah.  We love them.  But there are a lot of other NASA guys that I'm currently talking with.  Several.  One tells me wherever I go, but they're all interested.  They tail you wherever you go?  They're with me.  Really?  Yeah.  Usually traveling with me.  Somebody associated with that.  Yeah.  What do you think they want?  They all want to study.  They want to know.  And they observe it with me.  I take them out.  We do a lot of work.  Are they with you in Austin, Texas?  No, but they wanted to be.  I only have one night.  And my wife's friend traveled with me because she was at our house.  And her kids are right down the street.  But usually I go nowhere without somebody with me for a reason.  Wow.  Yeah.  I've had some things that...  Caused me to want to have somebody with me all the time.  What happened that caused you to want to not go anywhere unaccompanied?  Well, I've been threatened a few times by different ones.  And I was at the PSI games this year.  Psy games.  I call it PSI.  Psy games.  And I came out of a conference speaking.  And when I walked out the door, this mad lady comes running up to me and tries to kidnap me.  What?  Yeah.  Has something with drugs on it.  Tried to get me in a van with no tags on it.  Security had to come.  They had to call the law on her.  Yeah, so...  Crazy.  Crazy people.  Yeah, I imagine you attract a lot of nutty people.  Big time.  What do you think the Vatican knows about all of this?  If they had a picture of you and they were doing some ceremony about you and you were supposed to come,  what do you think they think of you?  Well, I can share a couple of photos of you for that.  But I got three pictures, several, quite a few paintings that they have in the Vatican that Diana sent me from there.  And Pope Francis, she said to tell me that they know that they're angels, that they don't mean to harm us.  But their energy, if they get excited, can cause harm to a human.  And so just be careful and try to ask it not to get too close to you.  And these three photos or the paintings show orbs with angels in them.  That's what they told me.  Yeah, because, you know, you have St. Francis of Assisi, who she writes about in 13th century Mount Laverne in Italy.  Right.  Brother Leo is right next to him and he sees this angel.  But if you look at the original Greek translations,  it's a flaming torch.  She thinks it's this UFO experience and that the stigmata he receives, these wounds on his hands are actually electromagnetic damage.  That like, you know, Gary Nolan or somebody studying kind of modern experiencers interacting with UFOs might just say,  oh, that's like an electromagnetic burn.  Or you see it in Close Encounters of the Third Kind.  You see the burn on his face.  I got, yeah, I got radiation burns, plasma radiation.  That's what NASA told me.  It was the, so you got, you also got plasma radiation burns.  No, I didn't.  But I was warned a million times by how Poppenmeier and different ones at NASA kept calling me honestly over and over.  Don't let them get too close.  Don't get too close to them.  The, how I was telling me that they knew the voltage was like 33 million volts in one of these things.  And if it got near me, it would kill me dead.  So they have like a scientific model of how these angels work.  At NASA.  They know a lot more than we know, than we think they do.  They just don't share it, right?  So who is this like team, like between CIA and NASA that knows a lot about angels?  Well, I don't know that, but I know the NRO is the ones that have the keys to this thing.  Really?  And why do you think that?  Because they have the keys to all the satellites and all the eyes on the sky.  And they're the ones that every rocket, when it goes,  right, they observe every aspect of that rocket for reasons, for mechanical reasons.  And for a surprise visit that happens pretty much every time they launch one.  Do you think that rockets attract UFOs?  That's what I'm saying.  Every time they send one up, it attracts them and they'll come up and look at it.  If it has weapons on board.  Does Tim Taylor know Elon Musk?  Yeah.  Do they work together?  For sure.  Yeah.  Did Tim ever tell you that?  Well, he mentioned his name, but he didn't say he worked for him, but he controls all the launches.  Controls all the launches?  Tim does.  He's the launch guy.  He's the dragon.  His console is called Dragon Control.  And he controls all of the launches out of Cape Canaveral?  He's the guy.  He's the one.  And I'll tell you what he does.  When they fire a rocket up, right?  They have these big ground-based cameras.  Like on a World War II battleship where they sit on a gun and they could turn a handle and the gun would go around.  And, you know, they could control this thing they're sitting on.  Well, they have big binoculars like that.  And they can get on this thing and follow this rocket up.  And they got it to about 50,000 feet.  Then it gets blurry.  So at that point, it's intercepted by a WB-57 run out of Houston by a good friend of mine,  which is National Reconnaissance Office, works with Taylor.  So his crew's up there at 50,000 feet and it intercepts the rocket.  So they film it with seven cameras on that thing where it goes right on up.  When it gets up to 100,000 feet, then it's intercepted by F-104 Starfighter,  equipped with another seven or eight cameras on that.  And so it trails it right on up until it runs out of sight of it.  And then the satellites take it over.  And the only ones that can look at the satellites are these NRO guys.  And Tim walks out of his control into a private room where all the screens are.  So his eyes are on all that.  Fascinating.  Yeah.  How did he get into that line of work?  Because if you read Launch Fever, I don't think he's traditionally credentialed or trained.  Well, my friend from Houston told me he helped him get that position.  And who's your friend from Houston?  I can't say.  Okay.  He lives right down the road from here on a big ranch right out here.  Well, I'd love to meet him.  Yeah.  We can figure it out.  I'll show you a picture of him later.  Okay, cool.  Wow.  Fascinating.  And because Tim also works at Aerospace Corporation, right?  Yeah.  And what do you think the link is between NASA and Aerospace Corporation?  I know a lot of those guys are NRO.  Okay.  Interesting.  And they carry BlackBerrys everywhere.  Where do they go?  BlackBerrys.  Yeah.  Not iPhones, Androids.  They have all that, but they have BlackBerrys.  They do their business.  Mm.  Do you think he's a time traveler?  I think it's entirely possible.  You know, honestly, I can tell you a story about him.  Yeah.  It's in my book.  Yeah.  I think it made it in.  I wrote 140,000 words, and we only published 85,  and that was what they recommended.  They did it for the right size of book, right?  So, but in one of the stories, I talk about Tim.  Right after we came back from Zanesville, Ohio,  he came to my house, and we had this famous tree on my yard that caught fire.  This is a video out on the internet.  You can see Chris Bledsoe burning tree.  Well, we had this tree that just spontaneously combusted in the backyard.  It rained for two days.  The ground's wet.  Everything's wet.  And my wife and I walk out the back door at 9 o'clock,  and this poof, it erupted into flames and was shooting 20, 15 feet up through the tree.  And she put it out three times with a hosepipe.  It kept reigniting itself.  And so that got the attention of everybody, and Tim wanted to see this tree.  So he's at my house.  I picked him up at the airport.  He goes to my daughter's homecoming game that night.  She was a little homecoming princess.  She was in the 10th grade.  Now she has a double master's from NYU, so that's been a long time ago, right?  We walk up to this tree and having just a good conversation,  and all of a sudden, the one side of the tree is open where it burnt from the inside.  The tree caught fire in the inside and burnt a hole through the side of the tree.  And when we walked up to it, he walks up and puts his head right up to look up in the tree,  and all of a sudden, he's in the tree.  And all of a sudden, this snake comes out of the tree, this silver snake.  And it was perfectly, I'd never seen anything like it ever.  It was silver as a silver automobile, perfect color.  He jumps back, and he grasps for air.  Oh, my God, just like that.  And he looks at me, and he was short with words.  And he said, you know, my grandmother is full-blooded Choctaw Indian.  And I went to school.  I went to a minority grant.  My grandma told me if I ever saw a silver snake, it was part of their history, right?  She said it would be a message from God.  And he saw that and told me all about it.  But I watched his reaction, and it got the best of him when that snake come out of that tree.  And you saw the snake?  I was standing beside him, yeah.  What do you think the message could have been from God?  It was a message for him to understand this whole thing.  It was from God, somehow or another.  And how does, one of the most interesting things, I wonder, is if you read American Cosmic or talk to Diana Pasolka,  it's almost like they visited the Vatican archives.  He figured out a way in before she had gotten there.  And then they were sort of celebrating him at the Vatican Observatory.  Why would the Vatican Observatory know who a random?  NASA mission controller is?  It makes me think he is not a random NASA mission controller.  Oh, he's not a random guy at all.  Let's just say he runs with the biggest.  How so?  Do you think he has a connection with the president?  Yeah, absolutely.  He briefed Obama on me.  That's where this come from.  He briefed Obama on you?  It came from him with a dinner napkin from Camp David, Maryland.  And you're sure of that?  Positive.  Positive.  And did he tell you that?  That he briefed Obama?  No, he didn't tell me that, but I know that's what it means.  Because of the letterhead.  Yeah.  And where it came from.  Bob McGuire, who is, I think, former Intel and a friend of yours, came on the show.  And he said, that cannot be faked.  Right.  That definitely came from Camp David.  Yeah.  It's a napkin and an envelope with a napkin partially obscuring the address that's on the envelope.  I knew the address because it was the address of Chris Splendor.  I knew the napkin because it was the presidential seal on a napkin from Camp David.  There's only one way you can have that napkin because it's a crime to copy the presidential seal.  There's only one person that can get you to Camp David.  And the picture was mailed to him by Tim Taylor.  By Tim Taylor.  And the only person that story can have been told to.  In that envelope was Barack Obama.  Oh, my God.  The letter to me is ironclad proof that Chris's story was taken all the way to Barack Obama.  Via Tim Taylor.  Yes.  You might think he was trying to throw you off the trail if he said, I briefed the president and was bragging or whatever.  But he didn't sound it out independently.  Right.  I found it out.  I didn't know what it meant.  But I knew that he told me he just returned.  He returned from Camp David.  And it was at Christmas when he gave it to me.  Oh, so he told you that?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Wow.  And he said, I was at the dinner table with the president and handed me that napkin.  He said that?  Yeah.  Okay.  So he did tell you that?  He didn't tell me.  He briefed him, but he did give me the napkin and this.  Yeah.  And you believe him?  Yeah.  I had no reason not to.  Have you ever caught him in a lie?  No.  Ever?  I wouldn't.  Not that I can recall.  Everything he said has.  Either come out to be true or you're waiting for confirmation.  Right.  Right.  Wow.  Have you independently verified?  Some of what he's told me.  Some of the things that he said.  Yeah, 100%.  Is there an example of that?  No.  It was just, you know, it'd be like, it's just so hard to pinpoint any one thing.  Sure.  Or like, I don't know, some of the things about how the NRO or NASA work together.  Have you been able to verify anything?  Yeah, absolutely.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Big Dipper or Ursa Major has anything to do with the UFO phenomena.  You've said that you've seen UFOs come from that constellation specifically.  I have.  Yeah.  But, you know, I've learned since then that doesn't matter.  It's wherever I look.  I can take you out at night and face one certain direction and only have a hole to look through  that direction and it'll come from there.  We can turn in any direction and focus there and that's where it'll come from.  So, do you think the Vatican and the President and whoever, Tim Taylor, you know, the hammer,  do you think they're all coordinating in some way, like maybe this archangel, the Vatican  and the President, or what do you think the connection is there?  I don't have a clue.  I don't know.  I'm just telling you what I was told, right?  Yeah.  So, I've been told a lot of things.  But he told me about the movie.  The Adjustment Bureau and the story about the hammer.  Yeah.  Have you ever watched the Netflix show Dark by any chance?  No?  I don't know.  Do you think that, you know, you mentioned Tim's grandmother being Native American.  Yeah.  So, is he a time traveler?  I know where he came from.  Right.  As a young boy.  Which is?  Well, he told me the story about his upbringing, his Native American grandma.  And so, I would...  I'm just answering that question you asked earlier.  Is he a time traveler?  I don't know.  I just know he told me and shared with me his childhood.  Did he say anything else about Thomas Townsend Brown?  Not a lot other than we went there.  We went to...  In a conversation about his daughter and that he was actively...  And I actually have the manuscript saved on my phone.  He shared with me that he was working with her on...  On this book.  On that book.  Whatever happened to the book?  I don't know.  But I know I have the manuscript that they were writing.  Oh, I would love to read it.  Whether they were publishing it or ended up publishing it, I don't know if they did  or not.  What was it going to be about?  About their father.  Her father and his work and Tim's input confirming it all.  And Tim definitely knew Townsend Brown.  Yeah.  He knew his daughter.  He caught her when I was...  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  He knew his daughter.  He caught her when I was there with him.  This is crazy.  Yeah.  This is so interesting.  Yeah.  I want to...  Are you still in touch with Tim?  I haven't spoke to him.  He sent word to me a couple years ago.  I had to...  I want to speak to him about Townsend Brown.  He's a ghost, Tim.  Yeah.  Yeah.  His whole life, I admire him because his real life is in medical, saving children.  Mm.  cares more about the children and and the struggles they have and diseases and cancers and  finding cures for that i i'm i'm sort of like a part of me is like hesitant to even ask questions  about him because i don't like honing in on any specific individual right but when there's a  specific individual who seems like they're embedded at the deepest levels of power structures that go  as high as he does they're claiming things to you and diana pasolka that seem kind of otherworldly  you know i just have to be fascinated and it and both you and diana have you know public  you know followings right and so i'm like okay like you have to know like some of this stuff's  gonna get out and you're gonna instill curiosity right you know and i you know i don't know if you  know this but i met him once for like 20 minutes oh you did like a facetime or whatever yeah yeah  um it was so stupid in retrospect because now i'd ask him so many other questions but you were  tongue-tied at that moment not only tongue-tied i would because i was invested in um this rocket  company and they were struggling to get off the launch pad and i normally i'd separate the woo woo  ufo stuff entirely from like you know that world i don't i you know try not to mix them at all right  but uh i was kind of desperate and i was like okay  i i did read this book american cosmic and i know that like you know there's this guy  and he claims to use consciousness to get the you know rockets off the pad  and so i'm like if there's anything there i know the guys i'm working with you know invested in  they're not thinking about consciousness as any sort of factor or component so that was the  impetus for me to talk to him and we talked about that for 20 the trippiest thing he said to me  and i don't remember exactly how he said it but it was clear this was the implication as he said  for you to succeed in your rocket company like you have to know what they want you know yeah and like  diana said it you know called it the sponsors and that's you know but it's the the beings or  whatever now you know why he has a private office and the only one with eyes on whatever  comes up to that rocket he's the only one with eyes on that well he's the one that he's at uh cape  canaveral in that room what where does the nickname the dragon come from i don't know but he has a tattoo on his arm of the dragon  but where does the nickname the dragon come from i don't know but he has a tattoo on his arm of the dragon  he's got eyes on that and well this guy was one of the only guys attie's in the country.. well i mean...  where he sits on that child he's one of the most powerful!!  the rarest day what can i ever do!!  has a tattoo on his arm of the dragon and when i was allowed to get on base i had to get a tattoo  right here just it was part of the mission really and it was of a dragon yeah whoa and then you have  the the dragon capsule you know at spacex and i don't know if that's do you think that's a  coincidence or no it was all part of it you think so yeah um when you were at cape canaveral  he was showing you around did he show you anything interesting yeah a lot of stuff anything  exciting or kind of beyond what you would expect just at a you know i was like a kid right here  the the most secure place on the planet cape canaveral the mission control he told me it was  more secure than the white house nothing is that secure and last time i talked about this i got in  trouble right really well yeah uh one  particular thing i mentioned on danny jones podcast oh well you got in trouble for saying  something well yeah well it got i don't want to say it here because it got his got it it got the  algorithm killed on that you said that uh the views were like you know it was like doing 50k a  day oh yeah and then it cuts off yeah you speak to some rep at google and they're like we don't  know what the hell happened here it doesn't make any sense given the click-through rate average  duration which should basically define  the video's performance he goes the one other time i've seen this is with jesse's david grush  video exactly performance fell off a cliff yep so and he said that he said that my video with  bledsoe and your video with grush neither of them broke any youtube rules or had any internal red  flags that he was able to see yep and he goes whenever this happens which has happened one  other time recently with david grush yep it's basically the floor above me that i have no  access to yep some something  my head that i don't know what the hell's going on so what the hell is going on yeah danny jones  said that yeah the video got totally like cut off throttled right and he was confused and danny by  the way is not like a dogmatic ufo believer at all right it goes back and forth on the whole thing  a lot and he's apparently called this rep at google and google said you know the only time  this has ever happened and it's the floor above us and a video's totally gotten nuked was uh jesse  grush interviewed yeah right so well that happened with me and i put him in touch with my friend in  washington and the cia and i i said look they just killed this and he got to the bottom of it  but he did yeah and he figured out that there was actual possible obstruction with google and from  what i heard was just something i mentioned got the attention of the news and the news called  nasa and nasa's like god we don't want to talk about this what  this is true this is true this is true this is true this is true this is true this is true this is  crazy well because i mean trump just designated nasa as a spy agency well and it's already it's it's  you're already you know you're labeling a thing that's already been the case for you know decades  right but this is just confirmation of that that's why it's whoa that's what happened with  that video with danny still got uh what one point two or three million that's a whole ton of views  do you do you think that um nasa has other propulsion modalities  i think they've had it a long time really i know they were working on it a long time ago because i  was asked to to work on which way electrons move really yeah what does that mean and what what is  it when working on it back engineering machines reverse engineering ufo yeah really nope are the  ufos like alien reproduction vehicles that like hover and then go into space or are they  like high voltage chambers that are like portals like in the movie contact where you end up in some  other dimensional spaces probably both of that exists i don't know but um and you think nasa is  sitting on this stuff i don't know that nasa is necessarily but there are satellite groups that  keep it under wraps it is so far buried do you think according to tim there were two generals  at the pentagon that knew everything and which general two  he didn't tell me interesting air force generals air force general see when you go to nasa the  mission control when you walk in there it's a square building with a long hallway in the very  middle and when you walk down this hallway it's glass uh glass on both sides right and you look  to the right here's all nasa scientists and launching you know at their consoles and you  look to the left it's exactly the same but it's all air force people so they have dual redundancy  air force over here and civilian on this side running every launch and tim's in the middle of  all of it and then once that rocket goes up he disappears into this one little room that has  eyes on it the whole time what was the most interesting thing you saw with your own eyes  that cape canaveral uh probably um well i learned some interesting things that i dare won't share  um not on here but um  i guess going into crew quarters was the greatest thing for me because  when we got there this building had been built like in the late 50s  when they first started mercury and launching to the moon right and only according to tim only 300  people had ever been in that building in all those years only 300 and he said only one president  no congressman anyone and he said you know  don't go around sharing this because here i am sharing it because they might get upset why  they're not allowed in this place and those 300 people would include the staff that run the place  the den mother that's been there i met her she'd been there 35 years and she has a small group of  people the doctor that's on that lives there with the mom the dad and the children so those 300  people would be john glenn and  and armstrong and their family right so their kids and their lives and all  so a very small group of people had been in there and i got to tour the whole place and sit where  the astronauts sit and have a sit in the boardroom and go in the doctor's offices and sit where they  put their their spacesuits on i got to look through all that and handle it and um it's amazing  but i was told that when you  leave from here you'll never be the same he said that every time that thing went up  when it came back down something came with them and it was still there what came with them well  whatever the spirit is a phenomenon something intelligent whoa is there yep so like  almost like a hitchhiker tag along same effect or something they would go up  and then they'd come back down but be they'd be hitched with some sort of spiritual thing yeah  whoa yeah he said he told me that and that's why they don't let everybody in there  and do you so is your take because there's to me there's something weird about the moon landing  i don't think it's necessarily fake like you know not like full hoax or something but there's  something that feels very managed about our perception on it what do you think actually  happened that's a big one because i've learned some things since about that i've seen some photos  of the moon and um some things i can't dare say but what i saw makes me wonder is it is it real  is it an illusion was it put there tim insinuated that it was it wasn't there by accident that it  was set there and so he would say they're very sly with their words but  i i i think that's the case too it's title locked so you never see the dark side it's one  400th the size of the sun but 400 times closer to the earth perfect from the sun in this sort of yeah  perfect way and the conventional story of how it was made makes no sense to me the idea that there  was some sort of proto-earth and this mars-like object hit earth or whatever like this massive  object hitter part of the earth's mantle of the earth is a part of the earth's mantle of the earth  came out and firm formed this perfect cylindrical moon prima facie you don't need to be an expert in  this stuff to know that that's probably not the case right and then parts of it seem hollow there  seem to be caverns in it there you know they put seismometers on the moon if you believe the face  value story of apollo 11 even conventional like nobody can argue with this they put it you know  seismometers on the movement and it ring like a bell right so and then i think gordon mcdonald  who's eisenhower's space advisor said the moon would only make sense if the moon would only make  sense if it were hollow or something like that it's just a strange it's a strange object it is  strange and it affects our thoughts you think it affects our thoughts absolutely it does well you  have this sort of you know check and hide like lunacy right now lunacy lunatic that's where it  came from that's right if you go to the sheriff's department the jails fill up on a full moon  fair enough yeah and i mean you do have you know obviously women's cycles affected by  the by the moon right you know the idea that it doesn't affect i don't want to go full astrology  necessarily but you know the idea that it doesn't affect you know ecological processes or biological  processes is that's wrong so then what what is the extent of that effect i don't know  but something i saw tends to make me think that uh that um it's an illusion or it's uh  is something  i just can't say without getting what do you think it is i think something about our soul what about  the back side of it what do you think do you think there's some aliens there or beings i think there's  something illuminated back there what do you think is illuminated back there i don't know  is it like the john lear like soul catcher no i don't believe in all that but man  so what what do you think is illuminated on the back side of the mood i don't know but um  i have to leave that if you were to give a high level riddle or hint  um i don't know i just think that the back side is nothing like the front side  if you find photos of it if they're real it doesn't look anything like the front side and  from what i've seen there is something behind it hidden back there and and tim seemed to  think that it wasn't there by accident just the movie exactly what he told me it wasn't by accident  was it towed into place that was one of the things he wasn't towed into place yeah  that was one of the conversations i heard wow do you think do you get the vibe that he has  some metaphysical world view that is  more concrete because the average person you talk to them about metaphysics and if they speak in a  self-assured way they're probably full of right and they're either full of or they're really epistemic  umically humble and they're like i don't know i take these things metaphorically and you know  so it's like one or the other and then occasionally occasionally especially if you're a seeker like  you know you are i am you meet somebody and it's like you have kind of a more concrete  understanding of what's going on out there right do you feel like he's 100 that way you feel like  that yeah and you don't think he's sort of conning you in any way or no well i thought that some of  the things he said flew into face away  i believe then but now years later you know i thought it's changed on this thing and so  some of the things he was telling me makes more sense today  do you think there's a native american connection a lot of people you know i've interviewed mario  woods on my show who uh you know is native of native american descent and people say that you  know if you have yeah that that that ancestry you might be able to get in touch with this stuff a  lot more easily other people say that about rh negative blood do you think either of those  things are true i think there's a possibility yeah with the blood i'm not sure about that but  i do know that i was a book showed up to my house that was sent from some folks in the government  cia and said read this and it was the miss and i i i can't remember the whole title but it was the  ancient myths and lore of the cherokee and it was written by james mooney in 1891. that's when it  was published in 1891 by james mooney and the book talks about the cherokee little people it talks  about the thunder boys it talks about a missing time it talks about all sorts of stuff in this  book and um that when they gave me that they were particularly  interested if i had a native american blood in my dna and so i went and had all that done  through ancestry and 23 and me come to find out i'm 99 irish british scottish you know so no native  american there have you ever seen a ufo in a hangar no you're just seeing it in the in this  base yeah or on the ground do you think that uh  the kind of you know security establishment in the u.s has ufos in in its possession they're  reverse engineering now well they're big liars if they don't because they've been saying it for  years yeah they're really beating that drum right now they are big liars same same same story for  50 70 years now we have this we saw that my friend saw it i saw a letter here's another  letter i saw i saw i saw that's all you hear but you never see  yeah that's what's so strange never yeah it was me i'm sharing it you know i'll tell you there's  orbs there and then we go out and we see them but i'm not labeling it and do you feel like because  i think on sean ryan's show diana pasolka spoke about your experience almost as if you had been  like messed with or something do you feel like you've been messed with or manipulated in any way  um i think the phenomena has a way of doing things to trick you you know you hear jocks  fillet write about the trickster well that's not a bad thing i think it's like the adjustment bureau  same thing if if jesse if you if you want to go this direction it might it might trick you  to make you go in the opposite direction  um so it's kind of controlling your path so um that would be yeah i'll do with that but you don't  feel like um the intel world has tried to shade your perception of things in any way i think they  have okay yeah they have from the beginning they they tried to make me believe in flying saucers  and little green men really yeah and i kept telling them no i wasn't like that it wasn't like that but  So who was trying to kind of implant those ideas?  Hundreds of people within the government.  I've met hundreds.  And they all go back to that.  I got labeled a religious fanatic because I said it was spiritual.  I've been saying it was spiritual for 19 years.  And so they were really adamant about, hey, let's spin this towards this kind of alien, extraterrestrial thing.  Yeah, constantly alien, alien, alien.  Man, what you're seeing is negative, bad.  Really?  Yeah.  That's pretty crazy.  That's not cool.  No, it's not cool.  How do you explain that, what's happening there, where you have these spooky people coming into your life telling you that what you saw was alien when you know it wasn't?  And then you have somebody like Jim Samivan, who's very high up at the CIA, seems to probably, I assume knows a lot about a whole lot of national security things outside of the UFO issue.  But the UFO issue, he's gone very deep on for decades.  And he's being kind of an honest actor and telling you, you know, you experience what you experienced.  Do you think he was, you know, honest with you?  Yeah, Jim.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You know, I have a deep care for Jim.  And he does my family as well.  And we've shared a lot of stuff.  I know about his story and Debbie's, his wife.  So you think they're factions?  Like, how do you make sense of the fact that you have one half of Intel world spinning, you're attempting to spin your story and like kind of manipulate you.  And then you have another half that just seems kind of like good hearted.  Well, it's kind of, it's kind of like this.  There's a group of lower level guys that have a mission to do.  Disinformation, push a certain narrative.  But, you know, the people I'm meeting are heads of their departments.  Not necessarily.  Not necessarily this low level guy.  I'm talking the head of the director of operations like Jim was at the CIA.  He was James Bond.  That's who he was.  Director of operations?  Yeah.  Whoa.  Jim was, yeah.  What is that like ranking of the...  He ran the whole Northern Hemisphere.  Whoa.  Everybody answered to him.  Yeah.  That's who he is.  Very powerful guy.  And his friends, I've met a lot of them from, you know, the deputy director.  And, and when you...  When you talk to these guys in private, they pick your brain and you start learning more that they're learning.  They want to know.  That's, that's what I've come to the conclusion of, you know, everybody's like, oh, it's a PSYOP and they're trying to, you know, manipulate, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.  And I, I've not been probably in as many of these rooms as you have, but I've been in some of them.  I'm sure.  And I'm like, they're, they're like, we're fans and they're like trying to piece stuff together through.  I used to be so afraid.  I would do certain interviews, I'd break certain stories and I'd be like, oh, I got too close to the truth.  They're going to, they're going to come after me.  And then now I'm like, oh, they're probably learning alongside me and like using, you know, the stuff I'm learning and through open source research, like for their own shit or whatever.  Well, for the most part, they're, they're, um, they truly are people like us and they want to know, but there's a program of guys that's involved in the UFO world.  Keeping that close.  Going, but the, do you think, is there some, cause you met, you opened the book talking about John Alexander, right?  John Alexander also seems to show when people experience paranormal things like the Hutchinson effect, you know, John Hutchinson, California sort of, you know, metallic equipment seems to hover in like, you know, malfunction around.  It seems to have like all these electromagnetic anomalies emitting from his body.  Um, you, you know, other.  Other cases, John Alexander will kind of consistently show up.  Um, I think he's briefed on that.  Like, I think he knew about Rendlesham before anybody else.  Yeah, he did a hundred percent.  John is what's his deal.  John has been, let's just say he's probably the number one researcher in the paranormal world for the us government has been for many, many years.  Yeah.  His wife is work study and religion as a part of this.  And.  He's been in 90, 92 countries doing, um, research and to everything from churches to ceremonies in Mongolia, the reindeer herders, you know, the reindeer monk, he, they rode horses a hundred miles.  And do you think he has a pure agenda or do you think that he has an agenda to find the truth and, but he does, he does often he'll see these things and then he'll kind of semi.  debunk them.  And I don't think he did in your case, but I think in other, like, uh, you know, the Hutchinson thing, he'll show up and he'll be like, well, it kind of works at sometimes, but it's, you know, like if you read his writing, it's often like, it's not as magical as you think, sort of thing.  Like he kind of like, you know,  but John's more in line of, um, he, he don't look at the physical thing as being the, the truth of it or the alien thing.  It's being the truth of it.  He doesn't see it that way.  He, he's more about, it's more, that's too easy.  It's far more complex than that.  This thing, uh, does, uh, it, for example, in the 1800s, 1700s, go back and read all the reports on UFOs.  People were seeing, I read a story of, uh, a sailing ship with glowing sails flying over London and an anchor comes out.  And it's next.  Yeah.  And he takes a chimney and breaks the top off of a chimney, a boat, a flying boat.  Right.  So here's these flying ships, uh, sky ships, they call them for many, many years.  In fact, the first report that I've heard of in America was Aurora, Texas.  It was a sky ship that crashed into the wind tower.  Right.  1897.  And they buried an alien there.  You know where they buried him?  Where?  In my family, right beside my family cemetery.  Really?  Yeah.  That's weird.  Yeah.  That is really trippy.  The Masonic cemetery.  What?  Yeah.  So do you, do you have other trippy things like that in your family history?  Yeah.  Quite a bit of stuff.  Tim was the one that started that research with me way back in Diana.  Yeah.  So Tim is sort of an error in some ways to John Alexander, where he's also doing a lot of this sort of paranormal research.  Yeah.  But what's so interesting to me is he's has a functional job at NASA too.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Well, that's part of his job.  Wow.  Do you think that space, like our space travel program is somehow related to studying these paranormal things?  Yeah.  How do you think it's related?  Well, you heard him talk about it when you were speaking about creating, investing in a rocket company.  It's up to them, right?  I don't know.  You know, I, I know the history of rocketry, you know, and I know Jack Parsons thought he was in touch with, you know, other beings and literally saw like a, what was it?  What you could describe as a Nordic alien woman, you know, while he was testing rockets, you know, in California, in the Mojave desert.  I know that Tsiolovsky, the Russian equivalent thought he was in touch with angelic beings, Herman Oberth, you know, the father of the German rocket program.  All of them thought that.  Thought they were angels.  Yeah.  So, but then I also know Elon Musk, you know, kind of dismisses the whole alien thing and.  Well, how part of him I've told me.  And before I tell you that, we'll get back to.  Yeah.  Yeah.  The, the flying ships, right?  In 1947, Kenneth Arnold sees these little chevrons flying about and they were kind of moving freely and, you know, half a dozen of them.  And the reporter says, well, how did they move Kenneth?  And he said, well, if you took a saucer out of the cupboard and you threw it and it skipped on the water, he said, that's the way they look.  Well, the reporter said, ah, Kenneth Arnold sees flying saucers.  Right.  So it goes out on the news.  AP wire now billion plus people has it implanted in their brain.  And for the next 50 years, what did they see?  Saucers.  Flying saucers.  Where'd they go?  Yeah.  Where are they?  Right.  Then comes a triangle in the eighties or nineties.  All of a sudden everybody's seeing triangles.  Yes.  Then I come along in those seven.  These big balls of fire come.  Mifflin's like, well, what, where are they?  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  Well, what were they?  I said, I don't know.  They wouldn't fly in saucers.  They were, they were light.  They were like orbs.  And so that kind of hung it.  And from 2000 last 19 years, it's been orbs.  So our perception of something celestial and in some almost like other world plate to platonic  realm that we can't understand or comprehend is being sort of shaded by basically media  by like our, the memes that we have.  Right.  That's fascinating.  And to anybody, is this such a cool conversation to have with you?  Because I think some people throw around the term like PSYOP, like with you and stuff.  And I'm like, the fact that you're saying all this stuff is like, so opposite, the opposite  of like somebody who's dogmatically like, you know, proposing the kind of extraterrestrial  hypothesis.  It's like, you're basically saying like, we're in some limited, you know, epistemological  realm or whatever.  And we're seeing something that's unexplained.  And that's a humble claim.  I don't think that's.  Yeah.  And I'm not here to label it because I would be lying if I told you I knew.  Yeah.  All I can tell you is 19 years of patterns.  I can tell you that I get a lot of people that call me that want to tell me their story.  My book empowers these people.  And I get this little lady calls me one night and it's just for an example.  And she's like.  She said, I saw this ball of light go by my kitchen window.  Can and I hear she said that she said she's 87.  She said, I hear tell you're the person that would know about these things.  I said, well, yeah, I try to help you, you know, so tell me what happened.  She said, I was washing dishes and it came up to the window and it scared me and it went  away.  I said, well, what was going on with you right then?  She said, I was washing dishes.  I said, no.  What was your life like?  And soon as she said it, I knew it's the same story for 19 years over and over and over  and over a thousand times is my husband died the week before.  And it's always the same.  People start seeing this stuff.  I had a near death.  My daughter died.  My mom died.  My son died or something horrible.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I think it's always that way.  It's almost like, um, I think about them showing up at nuclear sites, which they seem to show  up at.  And if there was some Archimedes lever point point of most leverage to shift timelines  on like a globe global scale, it would be there.  And then in somebody's life, maybe you'd show up at peak highs and peak lows and sort of  the, the, you know, peaks in the valleys or something.  Right.  And that could become something that I wonder if that's the case.  Well is that anecdotally your case?  I mean, do you think people even in like kind of peak States also see them?  Cause that's, that's been my anecdotal understanding or, yeah, I think it's possible.  Right.  But I do know that the majority of the people witnessing this now it's different because  it is coming, it's revealing itself and there's no stopping that it's going to reveal itself  completely.  Uh, and.  And.  what it's doing is cracking people's consciousness  just a little bit.  Makes you think, you know, it may not convert that person,  but they're like, oh my God, there is something out there.  So it's expanding our consciousness.  Do you think other people think that you are the Messiah?  I've been asked to, yeah, but I don't see that.  I'm just a poor guy that has had a hard time.  Yeah.  Yeah, and it's not been easy.  It's been a burden more than anything.  And I'm just a messenger.  I know that I can share this with people.  And after I do, then it's yours.  You can connect with it from then.  So it's not like something that I have.  It's something that everybody has a right to.  Do you feel like you have an understanding of metaphysics  that's deeper than the actual metaphysics?  Like, is there some sort of thing that you can relay  about how the world works?  No, I'm still trying to figure that.  But in a nut and a shell, I know that we're not in control.  That our thoughts are completely understood by something above us  that knows everything about you.  It knows your heart.  It knows your intentions.  And it will guide you or it will tear you down.  If you're going the wrong way.  That's the trickster part of it.  But is that bad?  You know, it's intended for you to marry this person, not that one.  It might do what it takes to get you to meet this person.  So fascinating.  Yeah.  And it's your job to be receptive and to kind of ride the wave  or listen to the synchronicities?  Yeah, that's what I do.  I listen to the synchronicities.  But my job is to share.  The truth that everyone's been told is not real.  And I caught so much problem from the community.  In 2007, when this happened, half my family, two-thirds of my family,  I quit speaking to my own cousins and family.  And it was because they wouldn't believe me  or I was being accused of messing with the devil, right?  And so they actively got hard on me  and tried to...  remove my children from me.  That was early on, right after it happened.  And so I kind of took offense to everyone.  And I made a vow then, I'm going to prove them all wrong.  I'm going to prove the world wrong.  That's what I said.  Made that...  And I worked on it pretty hard for 19 years  of revealing something that nobody says is real.  And what that is, I can't tell you with 100% certainty.  But I can tell you in 19 years,  I've experienced a lot of patterns  and never no harm to me or anyone else  that has experienced this.  And I've shared it with thousands of people.  Do you think the idea of disclosure  is kind of a misnomer?  It's the idea that the government can disclose  some sort of metaphysical truth  that they have this asymmetric understanding of.  Yeah, I think we're in post-disclosure.  Disclosure is not an announcement.  They're never going to give you  the secrets.  If they have a machine, you're not going to see it.  And I wouldn't want them to  because somebody else could get a hold of it  and it could be terrible, right?  So it's national security.  They're never going to give you that.  So they're just going to give a talk all the time.  We have, we've seen, we have.  Disclosure is a one person at the time awakening.  Suddenly you see it's real.  You saw an orb.  Oh my God, what was it?  I don't know what it was,  but it wasn't.  It was an airplane and it stopped  and it came up to me and it flashed me  and it went away.  Well, that absolutely changes everybody's world paradigm.  It just completely changes it  and sets you on a different course.  So awakening or disclosure is for those,  there's a lot of people that's already,  that knows.  So I don't think the government's going to ever announce anything.  They're just going to keep telling you we have this.  It's all that and make people get curious  and start investigating.  What do you think people's relationship should be to your story?  Because on the one hand you were cured of Crohn's disease  and I know you've had some other physical challenges since then,  but that's a really major thing that kind of you were alleviated by  and presumably linked to this kind of, you know,  amazing event in January of 2007.  Do you think people,  can experience spontaneous healings  and should they go for that  or should they go for the like incremental  kind of more deliberate thing?  Like is that,  it feels like catching lightning in a bottle,  you know,  like how can that happen in a repeatable way  unless Jesus is real or something and can heal us?  Well, I said earlier,  maybe we have our own power to heal ourselves.  We just don't know it.  Do you feel like you healed yourself in that instance?  No, I think they healed me  and I think that they will heal or they can.  They can heal you.  I've seen it too many times.  I've seen it happen in Australia over the phone,  long distance.  That's it.  And magic happens at that point.  And I don't claim that as me doing it.  I'm just the mediator guy.  I just present her picture to the heaven.  You know, it's all thought and intention.  Our thoughts are very powerful.  And our intentions are.  I know they are.  Yeah, they really are.  And everything was once a thought.  And I think thoughts have a much greater effect on reality  than just thought converts to action,  which produces this mechanical sort of,  you know, pinball machine,  which ends up doing a thing.  There's clearly something else going on  that I think will be proven out by science.  I think you're right there.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Do you think that there's a space program  involving consciousness that's deeper than,  because you think about, you know,  there's this, you know, 17th century Swedish mystic,  Emanuel Swedenborg, and he described,  you know, going up into the cosmos  and seeing all these, you know, stars and planets.  And you've had out of body experiences  and you've been to the Monroe Institute.  Right.  If I was forming some, you know, sleeper cell space program,  that might be able to traverse farther  than just NASA nuts and bolts craft.  If you believe remote viewing is a real modality,  you have to believe some sort of astral space travel  is also real.  It is real.  So do you think there's some sort of vital program  in the government that involves consciousness-based space travel?  I think they've attempted that and still are trying to.  They have to have.  Yeah.  And you even watch Carl Sagan's Contact  and it's like, oh, yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Like, that's kind of what you're touching on.  Yeah, exactly.  You know?  Yeah.  Or you, you know, Christopher Nolan,  who you read, you watch Interstellar  and then you read The Physics of Interstellar by Kip Thorne.  And it's like, if anybody was kind of dripped  some interesting info.  Right.  It probably would have been, you know, Nolan.  Right.  And it's just so fast.  It's like this fifth dimensional space that, you know,  where you can, where you can travel kind of maybe  between timelines.  And then when you die, you're able to, you know,  traverse the space.  You can traverse that.  And it's sort of hard to talk about a lot of these things,  but.  That's a big one.  You know, I believe when we die,  that based on the photo evidence I have,  you may have some of that, that I shared with Anna.  Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.  We, yeah.  In fact, it's going to come out on our pod  where she shows some really interesting photos.  Well, you see photos with people in them  or children or animals.  Where did I get that?  How did I get those?  And,  this was right after the lady came.  And at that time, I didn't have a video camera.  I had a cell phone, the flip phone, right?  But I went out and bought a little pocket camera,  a little Instamatic.  And I started taking just every night.  I wasn't able to get anything before,  but from that point forward, I did.  And it's like my dog died.  I write about this in the book.  I was with Tim at Cape Canaveral for a week.  And some guys from the NRO and we were meeting  and at a launch and had been there all week.  And it was Saturday.  Launch finally went off Saturday.  Delayed all week.  My wife knew I was coming home at Sunday morning  or Sunday night.  I was going to leave after the launch, Saturday night,  get up Sunday morning, drive home.  So at four o'clock, it was over.  I said, Tim, I'm going to Fayetteville.  So I got my car and I took off.  Didn't tell anybody.  Drove all night long.  All night.  Pulled over to rest areas, 13 hours, right from my house there.  Pulled over and took a nap.  8.30 Sunday morning, I drove in the yard.  When I drove in the yard, I knew immediately  that my Labrador was dead.  I knew it.  I knew it.  I can't tell you how I knew it, but I knew it.  Just came right into my mind.  I saw it all.  I felt it.  My kids and family had buried her in the backyard.  And three days before, never told me  because they didn't want me upset, right?  It was like my child, this 90-pound Labrador,  female named Nellie.  I opened the front door and walked in.  My wife's asleep at the front door in the living room on the couch.  House full of kids.  They'd been up all weekend.  They had invited all their friends.  So mom kind of would stay near the front  where all the bedrooms were.  Our little girl, she was the only girl, right?  So mom's doing, she's doing her patrol.  To keep any boys away from her.  That's what moms do.  So I walk in the door and I open it.  She looks up at me.  I said, what happened to my dog?  And her eyes got big.  And she said, oh my God, how did you know?  I said, well, I felt her.  She said, well, she ran out in the road  and got run over by a car.  And we buried her in the backyard.  So I took and I thought about it all day.  And that night I thought, she don't know she's dead.  That's how I knew it.  Because when I turned off,  the road right where she was killed,  it just kind of felt her and saw her in my thoughts.  So I took a little white candle.  I went out to her grave and I lit it.  And I told her, I said, I'll be with you again.  Just go to the light.  And she comes up out of her grave  and a little ball of light.  And I took that picture.  And that's how I got there.  Wow.  That's amazing.  And you should have a copy of it.  I would love to see that.  Yeah.  We could put that up.  So what is that?  What does that tell you?  You know, what does that tell you?  And I've got people, lots of people and children.  In fact, I have a child.  My wife and I lost a child.  We have four, but we lost a child.  And I was out thinking about him.  And this lonely orb, there it comes.  And I took a picture of it.  And there was a child.  Yeah.  In the orb.  In the orb.  And this is my screenshot.  Wow.  I'll show you.  Oh, my God.  That's a real photo.  That's a photo of a child in a ball of light.  That's a real photo.  Yeah.  That is amazing.  So what does that tell you?  I believe that when, I think that we're in a simulation  or we're in this avatar,  that we experience time because of our body.  But beyond the body, there is no time.  And I think when we die,  that we go back to that eternal place,  which is in church, they tell you it's somewhere way far away.  But I think it's just around us.  Well, there's time is created by the mind and the body.  And time is the most used noun in the English language.  But nobody knows how to define it without respect to the movement of bodies.  Right.  It's always something defined relative to something else.  So if you're doing that over and over again,  then it has to be this soup that you're swimming in where you can't get out of it.  You're like in water and you don't, you know,  it's like this David Foster Wallace speech where he goes, this is water, you know,  and it's like you're a fish in water.  You have no idea what you're in.  We're in this stream of time.  There's no way out of it.  There's no way to talk about it.  And really, you know.  There's no words for it.  There's no words for it.  That photo is amazing.  Yeah.  Can we show this to like a NASA photo instrumentation person?  Yeah, I don't care.  A lot of them have already seen it.  Okay.  I tell you, I was at, just to tell you how it is with NASA,  I was at, I was in a Capitol Hill club when the hearing, the recent hearing that happened, right?  And in fact, it was Anna Brady and a bunch of those friends of hers and without using names.  And we were having hors d'oeuvres.  We were with Eric Burleson and Anna Luna, right?  And afterwards, we went out and did a sky watch on the Library of Congress, right?  We were up on the platform and suddenly it sort of appears in, for 45 minutes, it did figure eights over the Capitol and the White House.  So, and Burleson saw it.  No, Burleson wasn't there.  He had gone home, but Anna was there.  Anna was there.  And a whole group of other people.  Eric Zydak from PG&E Power.  Mm.  Um, Donna Roberts from the International Space Station.  She was standing next to me.  Others, I can't say their name, but they've come out publicly, this group.  Oh, excuse me.  Tracy McGill.  She's an analyst for the DOD, I think.  Whoa.  Fascinating.  So they all got to experience it.  While we were having dinner, you were talking about NASA people.  Mm.  This guy walks up and he's.  He gets me a big hug.  He said, Chris, I'm a huge fan.  And he introduced me to his son.  We'd never met.  Right.  But he was one of the highest ranking guys at NASA.  He walks up and hugs me and says, I'm a huge fan of yours.  NASA.  Yeah.  So why is NASA publicly.  It's their policy.  They're gaslighting the public.  The people there, the people there are just like me and you.  It's so funny.  Cause it's like, you see the, them publicly and it's like.  They're doing this thing on three eye Atlas.  Right.  And it's like the photo is the resolution of, it's like, you're looking at a lamp  post, a lamp, you know, on, on, on, on a, it's like a street light or something.  Like it's horrible.  And the amateur astronomers are getting better stuff.  Exactly.  And then privately, they're going to you saying we're, we're big fans.  Yeah.  So interesting.  Isn't that crazy?  It is crazy.  That's a little frustrating.  It's like, can you close, can you split the, close the gap a little bit between  your public and your private, you know, perception.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  One thing Hal told me, Hal Poppenmeier, we were, we loved him.  My children loved Hal because he became, you know, my dad died in 2013 and he,  Hal came in 2008 and.  You just showed up at your door, right?  Yeah.  Knocked on the door in 2008.  That's the guy that showed up at your door.  And so he'd come three or four times a year and stay a week at the time.  And, uh, his biggest thing was my children.  He would, they would bring school friends over and he'd have a big.  You know, he loved kids, so he'd pull up mastodon teeth and tech tights, and it was just a  big party of science and he loved that.  But Hal told me he died in 2019, he died in 2019.  He was coming to our house for Thanksgiving, he and Katie, and he fell and hit his head  and went in a coma and never woke up.  Right.  But he told me right before he died, he said, Chris, I want to tell you one thing.  He said, I want to tell you one thing.  He said, I've wondered for many years, he said, what this phenomenon is.  Oh, I know all about it.  He said, you know, I've seen it all.  He said, but we've always been on the fence of what it is we're dealing with.  But he said, when I, I know now to me is, um, he believed it was angelic.  It was, they were always on the fence of what it is, but he observed it with me a lot and  saw its nature and how it would react to certain words and certain prayer.  And was he religious?  Well, um, he wasn't religious at all, but he was toward the end of his life.  He became very open in prayer and stuff.  That'll make you religious.  Yeah.  Tim Taylor had a conversion right at the Vatican where he converted to Catholicism.  Exactly.  It's fascinating.  So that's where this thing takes you.  Yeah.  It takes you down that, that path.  Yeah.  If you interact with it, it will.  There's an apocryphal quote that's often attributed to word of Heisenberg and, uh, you know, he's  this amazing physicist, but it was also in charge of the German nuclear program under  the Nazis.  But, uh, but also do a much deeper philosophical guy and he regretted his kind of role in that  stuff.  And he says, um, the first sip of the bottle, you know, uh, of science makes you an atheist,  but when you get to the bottom, you find God at the bottom.  Right.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  That's what it sounds like.  Yeah.  Exactly what it was.  Yeah.  Yeah.  That photo you showed me with the child in the orb, that looks exactly like in 2001  space odyssey at the end of the movie where Bowman he's, you know, going up on the ship  and then he, he ends up, I don't know what happens, but there's this, it's this weird,  bizarre, surreal scene.  And you see the, the monolith and then all of a sudden it cuts to this baby hovering over  the earth in this like orb capsule thing.  Crazy.  Right.  And I watched that.  I remember watching that.  It's one of those things where I'm like, I am too unenlightened and dumb to know what  this means, but I know it means something.  And that's what a lot of the UFO topic is.  It's like the sound of the, uh, one hand clapping the Zen Cohen.  You're like, and it just makes you want to go further.  Right.  You're like, you see something, you're like, you don't quite know what it means, but you're  like that.  There's something about that.  There's saying this, it says, and if anybody knew kind of, you know, some deeper truths  about reality, like I do think Arthur C. Clarke, Stanley Kubrick, guys like that were tapped  into something deeper.  And so that photo tripped me out.  Cause I'm like, what did, what did they know?  And you know, is that photo, you know, somehow lining up with what they knew?  I think they probably knew a lot more than they had to.  And the government knows a lot more.  The government knows a lot more, but this, everybody that see anybody in the ranks wants  to see this stuff.  They want to know about it.  Yeah.  I believe it.  Who wouldn't?  Yeah.  Does the stuff, you know, about the dark side of the moon point towards sort of a simulated  world?  Yeah.  It does.  Yeah.  Well then you get into these things around, like, why, why can't we have disclosure?  You can't say that official.  If you're in some like official government position, you can't, you cannot say like,  I would, I want as much disclosure as, as humanly possible, but like if you're Trump,  it might be tough.  That might be a tough one.  You go up there on the podium, you go, we're in a simulated universe.  You're, you're, you're, uh, everything is you're in a karmic whirlpool where you get  stuck.  You experience the same thing over and over again, but with a different veneer time is  actually an illusion.  Yeah.  And that veneer is just.  The changing of memes that are implanted in your head.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Exactly.  Like if you started to go deeper into that.  Exactly.  Where does that lead?  Where does that lead?  That leads to a very, you know, and I, I think we might be headed there anyways.  I don't think we need authority figures necessarily to say these things.  I think we're going to, I think what's gonna happen is that basically the way I see this  is consciousness is just one big unified field, right?  It's all one.  And everything that exists is in that one.  Mm.  From the ghosts to the aliens.  Yeah.  To the aliens or to the angels and to us.  And I think we're in the process of rolling, humanity's rolling into that next dimension.  In other words, it'll be a world of, um, where we all in it, where we see it more and it's  part of our reality is shifting and when it's.  So fascinating.  Yeah.  It's so interesting.  It's so fun to talk to you because I, I think a lot of people have said, oh, like it's like,  you're, it's like you're too open-minded or something is the, you know, the, the critique  or something.  I have a lot of critiques hurled at me, so don't take that personally, but, uh, I think,  so I think if you believe in the parapsychology stuff, which I do, that there's some sort  of mind matter connection, then I think there's a correlation between openness and your effect  on the material world or like your, what you perceive as well.  Right.  Like inherently there will be at times errors made due to that openness because you're sifting  in, in this area that is so uncharted, but you're also gonna like, you know, come upon  like really core deep truths.  And I don't know if you can have one without the other.  And so you, you know what I mean?  Like, like, you know, I'm sure I've explored all sorts of like crazy stuff, but, but in  reality.  I think it, you know, my, I think my worldview is actually sometimes crazier than I can even  communicate via the show.  Yeah.  And it's really about catching people up, you know, epistemically and like taking people  through this like rigorous, like, well, let's start with the foundation.  Like that photo is real.  It's been verified.  You know, like you need to do that because we're in this materialist reductionist scientific  paradigm.  Right.  Um, but, and, and, and you'll make a lot of, you know, errors along the way, but yeah,  it's this really kind of hard thing because you, you make one error and you get these  kind of debunker skeptic types and they'll just hang on that one error for the whole.  And it's like, they're seeing what they want to see, you know,  The thing people give these debunkers and skeptics too much power.  Yeah.  Oh boy.  I don't even pay them attention.  Yeah.  To me, they're just uninformed.  Well, I think the thing that deflates them too is like, I'll admit, like I've gotten  a whole ton of stuff wrong.  Like, and I hope, I hope you would admit that too.  Yeah.  I have.  I changed, you know, we learned.  Yeah.  That's right.  Right.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And as long as you can adapt with new information that comes in, you know, then this is all,  it's, it's, it's really new territory.  So there's, there's no book, there's no, there's no vocabulary for this, none, it's all invisible  and we have to create a vocabulary for it and we've got to put a story to it.  As humans do that.  So you're constantly adjusting that as you go and pulling all the information together  and down the road, you think, well, what you thought before is not correct, you know, so  it could be different.  So I'll leave an open mind to it.  I try not to label it, but I will go so far as to say that it's been benevolent and I've  seen healings from it.  Yeah.  I know how it answers when I say certain words, it gets excited.  Which words?  The lady.  Really?  That's all you got to say.  The lady.  The lady.  Interesting.  Yep.  When you start talking about her and I can do this, I could take a group of people outside  at night.  I've done it over and over and over.  Take a mic if we've got a big enough group.  It's pretty, it's gotten pretty simple because, and I shouldn't say it's simple as it's complex,  but still.  It happens so much that is, this is pretty crazy.  Do you think there are pockets, air pockets of consensus reality?  And what I mean by that is like, do you think, you know, the Mandela effect?  Yeah.  So this idea that, you know, a lot of people in the nineties thought that Mandela died  in prison, which he obviously didn't, you know, do you think that reality might work  more like that than we think?  Yeah.  Because certain mystical experiences happen and the people with eyes to see and ears to  hear experience it.  And then other people walk away and they're like, yeah, I don't know if there's a thing  that happened or whatever, or, you know, or they like, we'll superimpose some prosaic  explanation upon the thing.  And reality itself is far more fractured, malleable, and in the eye of the beholder  than what.  Yeah.  And it's changing.  It's constantly changing.  Like the Mandela effect.  You talked about one thing that surprised me.  It was my wife and I've been married 43 years, right?  So our honeymoon was in New York City.  We'd never been there, either one of us.  We had a plan.  We wanted to see the train station, Grand Central Station, right?  So we go to Grand Central Station and we get photos and videos and we took a helicopter  ride and we did all kinds of things to experience New York.  And so I'm looking at my old photos of Grand Central Station, right?  Well, Google it now.  It's not called that.  It's called Grand Central Terminal and it says it's never been called that.  But yet I got photos of Grand Central Station written on the thing.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  But you see it now, it says Grand Central Terminal.  What's that about?  Well, they, you know, the, the, the Flintstones, the Berenstys, Berenstein Bears,  all these things where people swear that, you know, it was like a one way and then you,  you look at the record and it actually looks like there's another way.  And you know that it is this really amazing phenomena.  And then you get into deeper studies, like there's this neuroscientist, Wilder Penfield,  and you realize that you, there is no way of distinguishing between false memories and  true memories.  And he shows this in, with the ability to implant false memories into mice and stuff.  And then you get, if there, if there are these beings and any thoughts can be sort of implanted,  you get into.  This really weird ontological territory where the past and even Schrodinger himself would  say a particle is measured in the present, you know, it might change its past and you  get into retro causality in quantum mechanics.  There's obviously spooky action at a distance, but there's also spooky action across time.  It seems like, um, if you have two entangled photons and two double slit experiments run  with those double, you know, entangled photons, it seems like photon B that you're doing the  experiment with.  With two days in the future, if you measure that and you don't measure the first one,  the measurement of the one in the future is affecting the one of the measurement in the  past.  Exactly.  There's a great book called biocentrism.  That's this guy, Robert Lanza writes about this stuff.  So you get into really trippy territory where the past becomes the present is this constricted  present and, but it's like an hourglass where you have probable futures and probable pasts.  Right.  And the present is this measurement sensor that is single line of code.  It's like updating the past and maybe updating the future at the same time.  Right.  And it's this very strange sort of model, but you, you, there's no real way to argue  against that other than physical artifacts.  So if you have physical artifacts around an event happening, you can argue, say this is  evidence that this happened this way, or this happened another way.  If you have conflicting physical artifacts where you don't have physical artifacts, it's,  it's totally one word against the other word, or you can get into like numbers of people  who believe one thing.  Right.  Or numbers of people that believe another thing, but we have no idea how reality works.  We have no idea.  We have, we have a very limited, we are measurement sensors.  And so, you know, this idea that science is some ontological statement of truth.  Like no, we're it's the map.  It's not the territory.  Exactly.  It's just, you know, we see like very limited scopes of reality.  Right.  And time is the weirdest thing of all.  Yeah.  That, that, uh, has messed with me ever since I went there.  Yeah.  I went there and saw that and now everything I dig up, it says it was never called that.  Yeah.  Grand central.  Yeah.  Central station.  I was like, oh, of course.  Grand central station.  Yeah.  Go Google it now though.  It's not that.  Grand central terminal.  It doesn't even sound as good.  Yeah.  It's always been named that according to this.  Yeah.  So I don't know what that means, but it was really, it really opened my eyes to how weird  this world we live in really is.  Yeah.  How do you juggle, you know, a lot of these concepts might seem crazy to the average person.  How do you juggle just facing, you know, relationships, issues, things in your own life versus these  kind of deeper celestial metaphysical truths.  Those two things seem kind of hard to, hard to juggle.  I was talking to a friend yesterday and he has all these teachers, you know, kind of  in the Eastern tradition.  Yeah.  Like mystic in a sense.  And I think I can say this actually, his name is Duncan Trussell and he's, you know, I actually  just met him.  He's an amazing comedian, but I felt a kinship with him.  And he talked, he said his teachers all said that, and these are like Eastern, you know,  kind of Buddhists say that, you know, they know that the celestial realm exists, but  they ignore it because what we need to do is here on earth, we have these kind of karmic  path laid out in front of you.  Exactly.  And I'm sure a lot of people have this sort of escapist orientation towards this, this  subject where they say, oh, well, take me up on the craft, you know?  Right.  So how do you reconcile those two things?  I don't, I mean, it's like, it's just, it's mind bending, the whole thing.  I'm still grappling with, with that, you know, to this very day.  And I focus on, right now, my main focus is on the Rosetta Stone.  Really?  Why is your focus on the Rosetta Stone?  Because I believe that I can find, I think I can get there.  I think, I know it's talking.  I know it is.  I know it's talking multiple ways, not just telepathically, because that's hard to, to  prove or explain, but I'm sure it's talking through frequency, through the light, pulses  of light, with the right sensors.  Yeah.  It's some sort of Morse code or something.  Multiple ways is trying to communicate.  I've seen it.  I know it.  And I think one day we'll get there.  You think the Rosetta Stone is trying to communicate with you?  I think that phenomenon is trying to talk to us and to find that Rosetta Stone, you  know, that's just, the language, I want to find the language of this.  Of the, the beings.  Yeah.  And it's, it's putting it out right now.  It's talking to us.  It's talking.  We just got to study it and I'm working on a way to do that.  Do you think their language is discoveries?  Like the discoveries we make?  What do you think the language is?  Do you think it's a literal symbols and hieroglyphics?  Because people say on the crafts that, you know, they see these sort of hieroglyphics.  Yeah.  I've heard biblical texts and all on them too.  And you think we'll be able to decode this?  I think we can get actual real time communication.  Yeah.  Through the light and through sensors.  If we can gather enough data, how would we do this?  Put it in a quantum AI computer and there's two of them that I could probably get access  to.  So you're working on this?  I'm working on it.  Yeah.  Have you decoded anything yet?  Not, well, we're working on it.  It sounds like you have decoded a little thing.  Some, some.  Yeah.  Anything you can give us.  Enough to get me going full time.  I'm saying anything you can give us as far as a hints as to what you've decoded.  Well, I just did.  I know it's there and, um, and I think we'll get there in the next four or five years.  Maybe.  Maybe longer.  Do you, do you think there's something special about the pyramids that we'll learn soon or  something?  Cause I mean, one of your experiences was around the pyramids, obviously Hathor.  Well, I'm hearing that next year that, uh, that something is going to happen.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I'm sure something might be revealed from there.  What will it be?  Well, without getting ahead of what I was told this week, I've been invited to go down  there and, uh, be involved in something that is going to release, uh, something that was  hidden.  Interesting.  And what, something under the pyramids?  Possibly.  Like a, like a little energy grid thing?  I don't, they didn't tell me that.  Okay.  They just invited me to be a part.  And the Egyptian.  Okay.  And the antiquities authorities are part of it.  Fascinating.  Well, I just interviewed the guy that did the synthetic aperture radar Doppler tomography  scans of the structure under the Khafre chamber of the Giza pyramid.  I can't say that's what it is.  I can just say, I got a call from the right people that wants me to be a part next year.  Well, that's exciting.  Yeah.  Very interesting.  So I think something's coming from there.  That's going to be real interesting.  Wow.  Thought changing.  Thought changing.  Wow.  Yeah.  Danny Jones.  It was funny.  Danny Jones, I think, came into the, your interview with him, maybe a little skeptical,  but then he said he saw an orb with you outside of a diner or something.  Well, he called me.  He's like, I want you on my show.  I'm like, Danny, I'd love to be on your show, but you got to do something for me.  Um, I want to come a day or two early and I want to make you a believer, not a skeptic.  Hmm.  And he said, okay, okay.  So we flew down, my daughter and I and my wife, and we had dinner there in Clearwater.  Went over to Indian Rocks Beach, out on the beach, and he had his assistant with him with  a camera.  And I said, well, let's watch out of the ocean because I can get it.  It appears up out of the ocean when I ask it.  It's just like out of the sky, it comes up out of the sea.  And suddenly here it came.  Two of them.  Wow.  And he filmed it.  We all filmed it.  Was he freaking out?  Yeah.  Wow.  Yeah.  Uh, we did that last week and in California with some pretty amazing people.  Wow.  He also, Danny said he, I think he cut a small part of your interview where you talked about  a neuralyzer, like some like machine that erased your memory after seeing something.  Yeah.  I had to not talk about that.  You're not supposed to talk about that.  Yeah.  Is something like that, that you experienced?  I saw the patents on it.  Really?  Yeah.  So, I mean, that's freaky if the government has some, something that can do that.  Let's just say they can transmit chemicals through radio waves.  Do you think they can transmit thoughts through radio waves?  Yeah.  Uh, it's kind of creepy.  Well then, then I, then I get into all sorts of weird territory.  Like what, you know, what is, is the whole UFO phenomenon, some paranormal plague from  the thought transmission?  Yeah.  Well, what if, what if you were to see this alien appeared right here and you saw it and  you weren't supposed to, what if it can shoot you with something that would erase your thoughts  that you never remember?  So you think they can do, they have, the aliens can do that or the, the beings can do that?  You do.  Why, why are you high conviction in that?  Seems like something where inherently, if they can erase.  Well, I kind of learned some stuff on that and I saw the patents on it.  Oh.  Yeah.  And you think they're real patents?  Well, it was the U.S. patent office talking about it.  Damn.  It's kind of crazy.  But it's hidden away.  I don't think it's not real.  It was stuffed away somewhere.  That, yeah, dangerous technology.  Mm.  So they could shoot you with a chemical, drugs or anything from a hundred yards.  Think about that.  Some people, people, a few people have come on my show saying things like that.  I just, I, I never know what to make of it.  Cause I'm like, it's just, I don't know.  Just trust me.  I don't want it, but I want it.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know what to make of it.  Cause I'm like, it's just, I don't know.  Just trust me.  I don't want it.  I want that to not be true.  Where it came from was from our original conversations.  Mm.  So with like Hal Poppenmeier.  Mm.  Or with Tim Taylor.  Yeah.  Okay.  Very interesting.  Yeah.  Well, I can tell you the world is a weird place.  I mean, just the fact that you went to Zanesville, Ohio.  Did you learn anything else about Townsend Brown while you were out there?  I never knew who he was.  Until I got to Zanesville with Tim and then he began to unfold who he was and how he was  working with his daughter to finish a book about her father.  And I learned the whole story as much as he would tell me about his having visitors come  and land.  Did Tim Taylor believe that Townsend Brown made real anti-gravity breakthroughs as a  scientist?  I can't tell you if he believed that or not.  But he felt it strong enough that he was, yeah.  I think he, I'm speculating.  Sure.  Yeah.  Have you heard other stories of experiencers being shown a piece of metal and basically  evaluated to, you know, to see how they react to the metal?  Yeah.  He told me they were only, he'd only ever seen two other reactions.  Did he mention who reacted to the metal?  He didn't say.  He said, but it was nothing like what I saw here.  Yeah.  Well, you know, there's a story of.  There's a story of Wernher von Braun showing Uri Geller a piece of metal.  Right.  And he says it's, that's not from here.  Wernher von Braun takes me into his personal office.  There is a safe in the office.  He opens the safe.  I see a piece of metal.  I've never seen such a color.  Pulls it out.  It's not heavy.  Says, Uri, touch this.  Tell me what you feel now.  I put my hand on it and I say, Wernher, this is not from here.  He says, you're right.  This is a piece of a UFO that crashed on our planet.  You know, I'm mind blown because as a child, I used to sneak into movie theaters in Tel Aviv  to see films on extraterrestrial life.  And this is coming from the mouth of Wernher von Braun.  Exactly.  I saw some things about this metal.  In fact, I had a lot of photos of it.  I had to delete.  They were classified, right?  But I've seen some of it in real time on the microscope.  And what I saw, there were different types.  But it was moving.  The one piece, I have a picture, where it looks like a universe swirling around and  around with all the galaxies and stuff inside.  That's what the metal, the piece from Zanesville cut, that little sliver.  That's what it looked like.  Actually moving.  This other piece I saw was red.  It appeared red.  But it meant thousands of little blocks, little square blocks.  And they were self-moving and stacking themselves.  They were moving in the material?  It was like replicating or something.  What?  They were moving in the material?  Yeah, this material is like living material.  And this is from Zanesville?  Well, it was a piece I saw.  I assume it was from Zanesville.  The piece, not the red, I don't know where that came from, but the green.  I'll show you the green.  What?  Yeah.  I'll show you the, I don't have the video of it, but I have a snapshot of it.  I want to see that.  I want to see that.  Yeah, I'll show it to you.  That is wild.  Yeah.  Wow.  Moving like a universe, swirling around and around.  And the elements in that metal, I was told it had 51 elements in it.  And the most classified, most, we can only blend, at that time he told me about 15 elements.  Humans could only figure out how to make 15 elements.  But this had 51.  One of the elements was human DNA.  And he's like, how'd that get in there?  And plutonium.  Who puts plutonium in metal?  Wait, plutonium?  Human DNA was in this metal?  Yep.  And plutonium?  And plutonium.  Yep.  What?  And he's like, how do they put human DNA in metal?  And then they figured out in zero gravity how to bond ceramic to metal.  And then they were able to put human DNA into the ceramic.  And now your hip joints and all that, they don't fail anymore.  It's all in our medical devices.  Nobody realizes it.  As NASA's.  Because my understanding is most manufacturing and space initiatives haven't succeeded.  Like there's a company called Made in Space.  And it was always this kind of academic project.  And it never quite got off the ground.  But you could in zero G do all sorts of things that you can't on the ground.  Right.  But you're saying there might be some secret stuff going on.  Oh, sure.  Interesting.  Absolutely.  But they were able to bond ceramic to the metal and human DNA into the ceramic.  But they couldn't do it.  Whoever did it, however it was done, we can't duplicate it.  Wow.  Wow.  Well, Chris, this is a blast, man.  I love speaking to you.  And I think we could go on all day.  Yeah.  But there's so many.  There's so many threads I feel like I need to follow up on just from this conversation alone.  So we'll have to run it back.  And maybe I can come to Fayetteville.  I would love for you to.  That would be a blast, man.  I appreciate it.  You should come.  In fact, maybe we get you to the coast, like on the beach.  Yeah.  For one, a couple, three nights.  And we'll get a group there and blow your mind.  That sounds amazing, man.  Yeah.  Count me in.  Absolutely.  Thank you for coming to Austin, Texas on such short notice.  And, you know, I know you travel a ton.  And so just coming out here for a day really means a lot to me.  Well, believe it or not, in the last three weeks, I left Fayetteville, North Carolina.  I went to Orange County, met with Sammy and a group of guys, and then went up to Hollywood, met Margot Robbie and some other people.  Left there, went back to North Carolina, dropped my wife off, flew back to New York, met some people there, took a train down to D.C.  Met a whole group of guys.  Met a whole group.  Met Anna and some others there.  Then came home one day, and I'm back here.  So it's been just burning the road up for three or four weeks.  Wow.  That's why I called you last night.  I was so exhausted.  I'm like, I'm tired.  I'm beat, Jesse.  Or I'd have been here last night with you guys, you know, going to dinner or sky watching or something.  Yeah.  No.  No worries.  Well, this was really fun.  And we'll do it again, and I'll come your way next time.  Perfect.  That's a crazy schedule for somebody who's already gone through all the stuff you've gone through, so.  It don't end here.  It goes for the next 18 days, I'm back to New York, to Pennsylvania, to D.C., and then to Wilmington for the World Forum.  And, yeah, I want to make sure I plug the World Forum.  Okay.  What is that?  It was created by Mikhail Gorbachev back in the 90s.  In 95 to 2000, it was a five-year event.  It ended up in New York City when they dropped the ball.  Bono was there.  U2, they did the opening.  But it was the leaders of the world basically all came together to talk about the Y2K because they thought the world was in trouble, right?  Yeah.  We had to have a conversation.  And so now for the next five years, this year until 2030.  They're going to convene the World Forum again.  And it'll be Abby Love speaking, Dr. Diana Hennessy Powell.  And there's about 30 or 40, 30 speakers.  And they'll be, we were going to have it in D.C. at the Omni Shores this year.  But because of the travel and the flights and all, so we're going to make it virtual this year.  And I'll be speaking on there a time or two.  Okay.  But my big thing is on the 14th, the 15th, 16th, and 17th, we're going to have a group down on the beach at Wrightsville, about 40 of us doing a sky watch.  And we're going to broadcast it through the World Forum.  Cool.  Through the world.  Yeah.  Epic.  All right.  Well, go check that out.  By UFO of God.  And yeah, keep checking out cool stuff that Chris does.  And I really appreciate you being here, man.  Thank you, Jesse, for having me.  It's been too long, right?  It's been way too long.  A long time coming.  But you know what?  Things happen in their time.  That's right.  And I think there is, the questions and the conversation we had this time around is going to be, you know, it's much better than maybe what would have been a year and a half ago or something.  Absolutely.  I've learned a lot since then.  And I've learned that I don't know anything.  Right.  Same with me, man.  The deeper I get, the more I'm confused.  Yeah.  I say it all the time.  The more I learn, the less I know.  Right.  Well, that's literally true because if you think of your knowledge base as, say, it's like a sphere, the sphere grows and then the questions are the space around the sphere.  Right.  So the questions are going to grow at an exponent of the sphere growing.  Right.  And so the more you know, the more you know you don't know.  Right.  And so, yeah, I think the most knowledgeable people I know are the most up to date.  Yeah.  And they're epistemically humble and they're like, I don't know.  You know, because he just gets more and more confusing.  It does.  Like I say, there's no language for this.  So.  No.  But.  Each step, you got to come up with something different, you know.  Yes.  But it's like if you're getting, if you're going into kind of higher dimensional spaces  or like where there's more variables or more information, you do just have to have a better  sensor.  Like, you know, you need to, you know, you need to be able to audit yourself better.  Exactly.  So as long as you can do that.  I learned that a long time ago.  You know, just admit you don't know.  You know, don't label this thing.  And, and I try not to, because I can't tell you a hundred percent certain anything.  None of us can.  Nobody can.  I can tell you it's, it's, it's magical.  It's been beautiful and it's real.  And I'll leave it at that.  And I can share it with others.  And if I can't, my children can.  Yeah.  They have it in them the same.  Do you think there have been any attempts to censor you on any other media or podcast?  A lot.  So like, like how so?  Well.  And what's the motive?  And yeah.  And what's an example and what's the motive?  I think that, um, there's the narrative is it's dark and ugly and evil, evil, leave it  alone.  Yeah.  But you have such a positive healing story.  Well, and that's why.  And then, uh, oh, it's they watch.  Yeah.  They want, they want it to be this like.  Dark and ugly.  Dark and ugly.  Threatening.  Don't, don't mess with it.  We might lose control of the people if you mess if, so they don't like me sharing this  at all.  Mm.  Mm.  It's very interesting.  I've been told that a thousand times.  Yeah.  And.  I've been told two or three times you're, you're doing disclosure.  Yeah.  Don't do, we're going to do, you're getting ahead of us.  Yeah.  Any, any examples of censorship that you've like.  Danny, Danny Jones.  Really?  That video and a whole lot more.  Which, what, what did Danny, oh, Danny Jones is the, the video's getting throttled performance  wise.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  That was censorship.  Yeah.  That thing was going to 100, 150,000 views a day.  What was it specifically that you think got it knocked?  That was me mentioning about some technology at Mission Control.  Okay.  Okay.  And I don't want to say that again.  Okay.  Sure, sure, sure, sure.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Got it.  That's wild then.  That's crazy.  You backtrack, you kind of, or a back channel, then you figured out that NASA was literally  censoring.  Yeah.  Crazy.  Well, Google or whoever's controlling that.  Yeah.  Well, there's got to be.  But they sent the word.  That's what I was told.  There, there has to be a connection there.  It was about a technology.  Yeah.  I mean, Immaculate Constellation, you know, which came out in the Schellenberger, you know,  testimony.  You know, this, this, uh, November, 2024 hearing, uh, Immaculate Constellation had like a search  spike when David Grush came out and I think August or September of 2023.  So it's like, how do you, how you can't make that up, you know, and if that's the case,  that's like, you know,  Kind of what happened with me.  Interesting.  Yeah.  Interesting.  Yeah.  And then I think there's a manipulation of Google trends because that then this guy,  Bob Jones, uh, who I've gotten to know a little better since then.  And it seems very high trust, high credibility.  Um, he, uh, he found the spike and then the spike got deleted.  Yeah.  So it's like, if you're, if you're telling me that Google doesn't have some sort of backdoor  around special access programs being named, they don't have a connection with the DOD  around that.  You're crazy.  Absolutely.  You're the conspiracy.  They're like, come on.  Yeah.  Yeah.  That's me all the time.  Yeah.  I would have sold twice as many books already.  Guarantee you.  They've cost me a lot of book sales because of, um, Chatter Banning or yeah.  Well I think you're, I think it's piercing through.  I think, I think, you know, a lot of people, uh, love your story and are reading your book  and I, you know, whatever censorship may or may not be occurring.  I, I don't think it's really, you know, hampering you in a, in a serious way.  you in a serious way right well we're pushing through there you go they can't keep the light  out right the light gets two cracks and yeah well that's this whole this whole subject it's like  you know you don't don't take my don't distrust everything i say or you say or anybody else like  there's the world is i think shifting in this sort of 100 serious way and like you know i i  fundamentally believe that and i see it and i feel it so that's that new knowledge that's coming  yes well on that note thank you so much chris absolutely thank you brother cool absolutely all  right
