Greetings and welcome to Intelligent Disclosure.  I'm Richard Dolan. Here's my wife, Tracy.  Welcome, everyone. So glad to be back.  Happy to be back. It's been a couple of weeks since we've done a live show for you.  And, well, I guess we should say this is not live either.  It's not. Sorry. We can't do it tonight.  Pre-record. Reason. Thanks, YouTube.  They've kind of gotten rid of the whole Google Hangout thing,  which was really the only live system we knew.  We're very low-tech in a lot of ways.  That's true.  We've got to figure out the third-party stuff.  But on August 1st, they eliminated Google Hangouts.  That's really where it comes down to.  Yes.  And rather than learn the new system overnight,  there's all these different software packages I've got to figure out.  You've got to figure out.  So until we do that, pre-record is the way to go.  This is what we're going to do.  That's how it's going to be.  But anyway, we're happy to be here.  We did a lot of travel.  We were in the UK. We were in Denmark.  Yeah. I think we had a good time.  We had an amazing time.  We had a great time.  We had a great time.  We had a couple of conferences.  We had Awakening UFO.  And we had UFO Denmark.  We also took a short trip to York.  But the two conferences were absolutely amazing.  The people were wonderful.  We got to meet so many people.  People who watched the show.  Great to meet a lot of you in person.  That was totally awesome.  You did two lectures.  Your first two public lectures.  I have to say, I think you did a great job.  How do you feel about it?  Honestly, I really enjoyed doing it.  Because I'm talking about something that I find is important and I'm passionate about.  So I loved it.  I loved the experience.  And it was really great being there with you.  And being there with Linda Moulton Howe and other people.  Linda gave me lots of pointers.  You're not tooting your horn.  So she was talking about remote viewing.  No surprise there.  Your remote viewing experiences.  But you really got into some detail.  I did.  It wasn't all about remote viewing.  It was just a small slice of some other experiences.  That I've had.  And how I think remote viewing sort of relates into that.  And why I think remote viewing can be an important tool.  And why and for what.  So yeah.  That was kind of what I chose to talk about for these.  For my part, I got into a lot of the themes that I've been hitting for a while.  If you've watched our shows.  If you've watched my Saturday programs.  You know what I'm interested in.  The whole fact that ufology has basically been turned upside down over the past couple of years.  And.  Including, you know, the theme that I really feel in the last few months has been very, very important.  That is the leak of papers relating to Admiral Thomas R. Wilson.  From his conversation with Dr. Eric Davis.  Talked a lot about that.  As well as a number of other related items.  So.  And that subject is not going away.  You mark my words.  It will continue to gain, not lose power as it has been doing.  It's been gaining power all this time.  And I would just like to mention, of course, I know a lot of you who watch this YouTube channel already know this, but Richard received the Stellar Citizen Award.  Yeah, that was a nice.  I was had no idea that that was going to happen, to be honest, and it was very touching.  It was nice.  All those people, you know, it wasn't just my mom who thought I was a nice guy this time.  It was actually these other other people.  A lot of people went into planning that and holding that secret for a long time.  So it was very touching.  Yeah.  So that was very.  Very nice.  It's a wonderful presentation.  The thing that the only thing that makes me a little uneasy is that usually you get those things at the end of your career.  And I'm thinking I'd like to keep going for a little longer.  We'll let you.  So thank you.  I'm not quite done yet.  But well deserved.  I just want to say well, sir.  Thank you.  From everyone.  So we we did those two things.  We met with some good researchers, had some very good conversations.  I just want to give a shout out to Chris Aubeck of the Magonia website.  Chris is a brilliant.  Researcher, really expert in pre 1947 cases.  He spoke with us at UFO Denmark.  No.  Oh, yeah.  Denmark.  Right now.  I was thinking Manchester, Denmark.  It was funny because Chris and I do not agree on every element of the UFO phenomenon.  We certainly do not.  But I really feel and I think he felt the same way that we kind of enjoyed interacting with each other and we enjoyed hearing each other's perspective.  I certainly enjoyed his.  And I.  I hope to get him on a guest on the Richard Dolan show in the future and we'll have some very engaging conversations.  I think it will be amazing.  So I got to witness some of what they were getting into.  And I think a lot of people would really benefit from hearing that.  And I mean, you're both experts in your area, yet you do have these overlying, overlaying parts that don't see eye to eye.  So I personally benefit from talking with him and hearing his perspective.  So.  And I think we.  All benefit will benefit, though, from hearing you two discuss this.  So.  Right.  Right.  I think it will be interesting.  So forward to that.  I hope you guys do it soon.  Yeah, I think so.  I really enjoyed meeting him.  So anyway, we had a good trip.  But of course, it makes it very difficult to get a lot of work done when you're traveling.  It's tough.  So here we are back at our back at our digs.  I just want to say also we met with Grant Cameron.  You guys had.  Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes.  Had a good meet up.  And you.  Met up with Robert Fleischer and Francisco.  Francisco Moreo Correa.  I just want to say over how we say his name.  No one gets it right.  No one gets it right.  We try.  We walked away every day practicing.  Unless you are Portuguese, you're not going to get his name right.  I don't care who you are.  None of the Germans, none of the Danish, none of the Brits.  No one got it right.  So I don't feel that bad anymore.  Botching his name.  He's a wonderful man.  Francisco.  Francisco.  And every time I said it that way, he's like.  Yes, Richard.  That is correct.  So anyway, we had a very wonderful time with these researchers.  And now here we are.  We did.  So what I want to get into today, we still  have a few other kind of news items you were looking into.  But I really want to get into a theme relating to the tic-tac UFO.  Now everyone's been talking about the tic-tac UFO for the last two years.  It's not hard to understand why.  It's an amazing event.  2004.  Off the southern coast of California.  United States Navy encounters an object described as a large 40 something foot long tic-tac white  on the ocean.  Incredible maneuverability, multiple thousands of miles per hour and so forth.  And I'm very glad that we're getting a lot of publicity on this case.  It's very important people understand.  If I have a if I have a concern, my concern is that discussion of this encounter.  Is in such a way that it is divorcing the UFO phenomenon from the very long history that has preceded it.  70 years of sightings of objects doing reportedly doing almost the exact same things as the tic-tac UFO.  And I will be getting into that for you very shortly.  So I just I think that's something that we want to keep in mind.  I don't know anyone else in the UFO field is talking about some of these old cases anymore.  Mm hmm.  Like I just don't know who's doing it.  And I thought if no one else is doing it, I'll do it because these are cases that I am familiar with.  I don't hear anyone talking about them.  I don't see anyone writing about them anymore.  It's almost as if they've just been forgotten from our history.  And that is something that does concern me.  So I want to remind people, remind everyone that there's a very long, well-documented history of these types of encounters.  We're talking hypersonic speeds and amazing maneuverability.  And so I'm going to go over those with you and really just a tiny smattering of those.  There's you know, we could be spending the rest of the year on these types of cases.  I'm just going to do a couple here for folks tonight.  I think that's wonderful.  Yeah.  There's a couple of things you were looking into.  Oh, go in with.  Well, there weren't really things that I was looking at.  Well, I was a little bit.  But I mean, these are kind of the things that have been going on while we've been away.  So, of course, the storm area, 51 whole thing that shouldn't laugh like that could be.  It could become a serious problem.  It could become a serious problem.  It could be a problem.  It could become a good thing.  You know, I don't I don't know.  But I was just curious as to what was going on with that lately, you know, because.  Well, Facebook pulled the pages.  Yeah.  Like, that's one thing I just read this morning.  Facebook pulled.  There was a main page.  Yeah.  I went and tried to access it.  And the backup page and a backup page.  Right.  Both are pulled.  Right.  Like, why?  Seriously, Facebook.  What is the issue here?  It violated their community standards.  What?  Like, how is how does that make any sense?  Does that make sense to you?  I assume not.  Of course not.  Makes no sense to me.  Of course not.  I think I I think I also saw something that, you know, wasn't taken seriously.  It was jokes and memes.  But what's wrong with jokes and memes?  Yeah, right.  Isn't that what's permeating the Internet in general these days?  I mean.  We're siphoning the history out of UFOs and other people are siphoning all the fun out of life in general.  So thanks, Facebook.  So speaking of fun.  Yeah.  Well, while we are we're away.  Right.  Yeah.  I know where you're going.  I know where you're going with this.  So anyhow, I'm sure everybody knows about this.  I don't even have to, you know, really give it up here about what this is.  If you can just Google it.  I saw Jeremy Corbell looks like he's doing a documentary on this.  On the Area 51.  Storm Area 51.  I think I think it's called that.  You know, he did an interview with Matty.  What's his name?  The guy who created the page.  I know his first name is Matty.  I forget his last name.  You know, he's 21 year old student.  He did an interview with him.  You can go and check it out if you want.  It's really funny how it all started.  But so, you know, there were all these all this talk of the because he wrote Naruto running like people were going to go Storm Area 51.  And it was a joke.  You know, they're going to do.  And I know that's not how you say it, but this is how someone has been saying it.  I've been pronouncing it Naruto.  My daughter corrected us.  Naruto.  Naruto.  Like, right.  Naruto.  Naruto.  I was doing it wrong.  I was saying Naruto.  Like a total American.  That's right.  So, you know, to avoid the bullets.  That was the whole thing.  Right.  But it was.  I had to look this up.  I didn't know what this meant.  Uh huh.  Uh huh.  So he looks it up.  Go ahead.  That's it.  No, I'm not saying another word.  Okay.  So he looks it up.  But he's thinking about it.  Yeah.  I wanted to do it.  And he's talking about doing it.  So I may have some blackmail video of someone doing their version.  Yeah.  Of this style of running.  Hey, I'm not going to lie.  As long.  I'm going to own this.  I'm going to own this.  Uh huh.  I had some fun with you.  Yeah.  In a little personal moment while we were overseas.  Uh huh.  And I did demonstrate my technique.  I think.  You did?  If I were to be out there leading the charge, this is how it could go down.  Wow.  Avoid the bullets.  It's too bad people can't see your additional techniques.  And they never will.  Only a few people have seen it.  And luckily for you.  They live in Portugal, Denmark, and Germany.  And fortunately no one was recording that as it was happening too.  Right.  So.  Yeah.  Now what's going to happen is it's going to be like an FBI black box job on the house.  They're going to steal your phone, leak the video out.  Boom.  That's all that I need.  Yeah.  Like I have no other issues here going on.  Anyhow.  So I'm going to get the Naruto running.  Naruto.  We're just having some fun.  But I mean this is turning into this huge thing.  So I was amazed that they're still, they're actually going to open up a festival it sounds  like.  Yeah.  I assume at Rachel, Nevada.  Which is right.  Right.  The closest town there.  And all the rooms are sold out there.  But people have probably seen it in the news.  But.  They're going to have no capacity to meet like all of the people that are going to be  there.  Are you kidding?  They've got a population of something like 5,000 people I think.  There's going to be a lot more than 5,000 people descending on that location on September  20th.  They're going to actually go.  But it sounds like they're actually going to go.  It's going to be a thing.  And yeah.  They're going to turn it into a thing.  And then maybe it will turn into the biggest freaking festival.  Oh.  Every single year.  This is something else you were saying.  Someone.  We're not going to put out names.  Someone wanted to turn this into a like an aid.  Like a.  Like a.  Like farm aid.  Like a band aid.  Like a Bob Geldof kind of.  Yeah.  Kind of live aid.  Like Bob Dylan.  And you know.  Dionne Warwick.  And Bruce Springsteen.  Right.  And.  And we were going to do a little bit of a.  Yeah.  I don't know.  I was thinking about how you could sing a song to raise money.  Yeah.  Well I don't know if it would be to raise money.  But there was an email going around about something like that.  And.  Willie Nelson.  Yeah.  You could sing your part.  Oh yeah.  That would really go over well.  And.  You could do it lounge style.  Hey.  I think the lounge style is going to make a come back.  This is my belief.  I think that we're looking toward the new era of lounge singing is going to happen.  Before we get into the whole Tic Tac thing.  Did you want to talk about the Tucker Carlson interview?  Yes.  So there was a Tucker Carlson interview on July 26th where he was interviewing Mark Walker,  a congressman from North Carolina, and they're basically pursuing, you know,  what the military knows from the AATIP program.  Right.  And I just want to quote this.  Please.  Part of the interview.  Yeah, this is interesting.  Tucker Carlson says,  Is there any indication that you are aware of that these sightings are foreign aircraft, Russian or Chinese aircraft?  And Mark Walker says,  We don't know.  We have no evidence to support that.  We do know there is something that's traveling at that speed of what we call hypersonic now,  which is at Mach 4 or 5.  That is something that we want to know.  Is this something that another defense system,  in another country, is more advanced?  Because Walker wants to know.  He's saying he wants answers.  Like, basically, he wants to know because AATIP was supposedly ended in 2017.  He wants to know, is it still going?  Are resources still going?  Or is it over?  Are we still investigating these things or not?  Are there more files?  And is there any other evidence that we can find out about?  And, you know, he feels that for defense purposes, we need to know this.  So.  You know, the ball continues to roll.  The momentum continues to go, which was the main point of all of this.  We're looking into this.  But also, I think it kind of segues into what you want to talk about  because we're still all acting like we don't know what's going on.  That's sort of the narrative going on on Unidentified, the program.  And I think that's basically what inspired why you want to talk about this.  Am I right?  It is, absolutely.  So let me just jump in here.  I've got a couple of visuals I'll drop in.  I'll show you a little bit of what's going on along the way.  But really, what I want to emphasize here is that the Tic Tac UFO performance is nothing new.  That's the fundamental takeaway that I want you to have here.  So the, you know, the Tic Tac UFO encounter took place back in November 2004.  We've known about it.  Believe it or not, it was actually written about not long after it occurred.  There is references to it on the website above Top Secret.  Some discussion.  Then a few years later, it appeared on a website called Fightersweep  by a fighter pilot named Paco Chirio, who's a friend of David Fravor.  Talked about it there.  Essentially, what you've got is a series of encounters off the Southern California coast  in November of 2004 during battle maneuvers.  This is in the early years of America's global war on terror.  If you're around, you remember it very, very well.  So this is serious business.  And there were objects, plural, that were detected by the United States Navy,  basically seemingly snooping around with what they were all about.  Okay. The performance was quite amazing.  So you've got testimony of guys like David Fravor.  You've got Kevin Day, who ran radar on the USS Princeton talking.  All of them are, and others as well, and they're describing objects, plural, with capabilities  of multiple thousands of miles.  So when this congressman is talking about Mach 4, Mach 5, we're talking hypersonic speeds.  You're talking roughly in the ballpark of about 5,000 miles per hour.  It's ridiculously fast.  Fravor's testimony, you know, he said that the object, when he went to circle around  and pursue it, it took off.  It was gone out of visibility within two seconds.  Again, if you have calculated perfect visibility of 10 miles or a practical visibility of 50 miles,  however you do it, it's not going to happen.  It's not going to happen.  If you slice that, you're talking not less than probably 9,000 miles per hour.  So that's insane.  Kevin Day, operating radar on the Princeton, more recently has said, on one occasion, he  said we tracked it at an altitude of 28,000 feet, dropping down to sea level in .78 seconds.  You calculate that, that's over 20,000 miles per hour, and apparently stopping on a dime.  So now, look, admittedly, this is simply Kevin Day's testimony.  Hardened skeptics, and there are hardened skeptics, will dispute that until they see data.  Okay, fine.  I'm going to believe Kevin Day, and I think it's realistic to believe him when his testimony  is consistent with that of everyone else involved in this, and hopefully we'll get that data.  But the point is, this is incredible fast capability, and with maneuverability to go with it.  Can I just add, they also mentioned the transmedia.  The transmedia is a medium ability, so that...  Air to water.  Yeah, that's right.  Air to space, air, water.  So, yeah, and that it was even being tracked underwater at speeds that were unusually fast.  Well, that were actually, as far as we can tell, not possible for underwater objects  to go at, right?  Right.  Like, obviously, nothing comparable to what you get in the air, but underwater speeds  that are, as far as we know, far faster than our...  Fastest submarines.  So, yes, all of that.  Absolutely.  This is all the testimony.  And yet, when you get, you know, like with this congressman that you were just mentioning,  or Lou Elizondo, who's made many statements, or Christopher Mellon, who's made many statements,  saying, well, we don't really know what this is.  Okay.  You know, it's not hard to see why they're going to say that.  They're being very careful.  It's the old CYA rule.  You don't want to put yourself out there in a way that you cannot...  You cannot defend against people who are really going to come after you.  But the fact is, they keep saying this.  We don't know what it is.  And the other thing that I always notice is that, again, it's siphoning all the history out.  It's almost as if sightings began in 2004, the way that they're portraying this.  And this is so absolutely untrue.  So, what I want to do is just emphasize a little bit of the long history, A, of objects  that look like tic-tac UFOs.  Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  They perform like the tic-tac UFO, if not better, because there's a few of these cases.  And I just want to go back through, and I'm going to start dropping images here.  So, I've talked about this many times.  Forgive me if you've heard it, but I think it's an important case.  I'm glad that I found this case.  This is in Ottawa, in the Canadian National Archives of what was called the National Research  Council of Canada back in the 70s and 80s.  They took UFO reports from the public.  Uh-huh.  And, look.  So, I'll be the first to say, this isn't an official government report.  It's a man in his retirement writing to the National Research Council in the early 80s  talking about when he had a job for the Canadian government in 1936 doing aerial reconnaissance  and aerial mapping for the Canadian government of their northern regions, which is a thing  you do in the 1930s.  You've got aircraft that can do it, cameras that could get the job done.  Uh-huh.  And, there's a cool job for a 25-year-old, I would say.  So, he's going up into the uninhabited territories of Canada at a place called Isle Merlake, A-Y-L-M-E-R.  You look at it.  Here's where it is on the map.  It is utterly remote.  I mean, even for Canadians, they're kind of remote from an American point of view, but  you go all the way up here.  This is north of, like, Saskatchewan.  You're in northwest territories and in the middle of it.  Yeah, that's extremely remote.  We wouldn't go up there, yeah.  You can't go there.  It's actually not, I don't think there are roads to this day that can take you there.  And, when you zoom in, it's a place of infinite lakes.  And, just, it's not easily traversable, we'll put it that way.  But, he's up there on his aircraft that can land on the water, really cool.  And, this is what he writes in perfect penmanship, I will just say.  He says,  At the time of the sighting, I was standing on the float of my aircraft performing a  before-flight inspection.  When I happened to glance skyward, and detected the vehicle in question completely stationary.  That alone is interesting.  What can be up there completely stationary?  I mean, a bird, in theory, might be up there, although I doubt it, because there's nothing  to eat there for birds.  But, certainly an object to be completely stationary up there, that by itself is unusual.  And, then he goes on, he says,  How long it had been there?  And, for whatever reason, I have no idea.  At the time, the sky was azure blue, completely clear of all cumulus and cirrus clouds.  He even gives the acronym for that state.  This is a very precise man.  Making it virtually impossible, he writes, to determine the height of the object in question.  In trying to describe this vehicle, I can only say that it was the most magnificent  configuration of an airship one could imagine.  I would say it was very large, but this would depend on the height, which, as stated, could  not be determined.  He goes on, and he just describes some of the contours and features of it.  So, light aluminum color, not reflective.  Elliptical shape, like a tic-tac, in a sense, you might think.  No portholes, no identifiable markers of any sort on this thing.  It was stationary for a moment, then he said it was originally in a north-south configuration,  and it rotated.  And, this is what he writes, from a north-south stationary position, it turned east in a moment.  The turning was hardly detectable.  To the eye, after the turn, it took off at a fantastic speed, going east from the time  of takeoff until it vanished was a matter of moments.  No contrail, silent, and he attached his service record for the good people at the National  Research Council, just to prove who he was.  Those, by the way, were not available to me in the files all those years later, but it's  a heck of a case.  So, it hovered over him completely silent.  Yeah, right.  And, you've got to ask yourself, like, is it possible?  Is that an, is that a coincidence?  Like the only guy, the only living human being, probably in that whole region, and there's  something right over him.  So, seems to me that it was observing him, and then it just instantly took off, and that's  an amazing technological feat, but it's also very reminiscent of the Tic Tac UFO from 2004,  except we're talking a distance of about 80 years, you know, from 1936, nearly 80 years.  So, a long, long time.  I'm going to very briefly talk about the Twining Memo of 1947, it's been talked to death, including  often by myself, so I don't want to bore you with this, but General Nathan Twining was  a three-star, later four-star, general of the United States Air Force, and famously  in September of 1947, he writes a memo to another general, Charles Shulgin, talking  about these flying saucers.  This is a new thing at the time within society, within even the military dealing with it,  or at least many of them.  Many aspects of the military.  Twining just says very quickly, look, this phenomenon is real, it's not visionary, it's  not fictitious.  And then he just talks about incredible maneuverability and speeds of these objects, as observed by  military witnesses, so extreme rates of climb, maneuverability, circular or elliptical in  shape, flat on bottom, domed on top, no sound.  These are very, very advanced capabilities.  He's not giving speeds here.  So we're not getting into hypersonic this or that, but it is just another, it's a very  good piece of evidence to show that the US military was well aware of unknown objects  that had extreme or exceptional performance capabilities that were doing things that were  not supposed to be done, and with technology that wasn't supposed to exist.  Twining memo is very well known, we've talked about it for years, and I don't want to belabor  it.  Similarly, with this next memo that I'm about to discuss, it's been talked about a lot,  but there are elements of this that have been overlooked consistently.  So this is an FBI memorandum from January 31st, 1949.  It's three pages, and you can see those pages here.  I want to get into some of the details.  So the one part that everyone, and myself included, quotes all the time is that it was  talking about a recent conferences of armed forces.  I don't want to get into too much detail here.  I want to get into some of the details.  So the one part that everyone, and myself included, quotes all the time is that it was talking about a recent conferences of armed forces.  So the one part that everyone, and myself included, quotes all the time is that it was talking about a recent conferences of armed forces.  So the one part that everyone, and myself included, quotes all the time is that it was talking about a recent conferences of armed forces.  I'm not a США guy, so I want to get you back and yellow it instead that there's such as  a sudden departure of campaign models.  So it's something Carlos  W pregunter on is that there will be sort of an acre ofまで on each stream.  Sure.  talked about this and it's worth keeping in mind when you know 70 years later you got people  claiming we don't know what this is we don't know what we're dealing with well it's been top secret  for a long time um but let me go on here with this three-page memo because there's a lot of  detail in here that's quite fascinating so one of the things that this uh memo recounted from  these meetings that the military was holding was the famous uh july 1948 near collision the eastern  airlines case um this was one of the things that was talked about in the tv series blue book they  had that whole thing happen the rocket-like object zoomed by it that's right well this  was a real thing and they're just describing it here a large rocket type craft uh estimated speed  i don't know how they are arriving at this estimate but they're getting it as to more  than 2 000 miles per hour 2700 miles per hour um that's mighty fast  um  now whatever the speed of this thing was it was described by the pilots and the passenger  who saw it as incredibly fast so whatever you've got so they're talking about this but then it gets  even more interesting they get into the los alamos uh so-called green fireball phenomenon  all in this fbi memo so they're talking about invasions of sensitive airspace by unknown objects  at los alamos it's a very important place there with a lot of nuclear technology  happening they give the dates in december of 1948 quite a few of them and then talking about the  caliber of the witnesses who are all highly qualified very intelligent professional  individuals military pilots special intelligence officers and so forth but here's where it gets  even more interesting the fbi memo goes on talking about uh recent observations i've  indicated that the unidentified phenomena travel at the rate of speed estimated at a minimum  of three miles per second and a maximum of 12 miles per second or a mean calculated speed of seven  and one half miles per second or 27 000 miles per hour we're talking january 1949 and you can say  well it was the middle ages back in 1949. we try to think about how backwards that society supposedly  was they were not backward they had very highly technical instrumentation  and  this is what they're coming up with uh they were using instruments known as theodolites which are  highly sophisticated measuring instruments to detect altitude to detect speed and and many  other elements of objects that are moving in the sky this memo goes on it says on two separate  occasions a definite vertical change in path was indicated i think that's significant you have  kevin day talking about the tic-tac this object changes its vertical altitude right in a lot of  less in one second and talking about this seeming to be focused on los alamos one one more uh part of  this memo here i just want to get into before we move on they're describing physical characteristics  as far as they can tell of what has been observed object typically seen as round occasionally diamond  shaped that's interesting and this is a quotation here with a definite area to the light source  in a subject typically seen as round occasionally diamond shaped that's interesting and with this is  a quotation here with a definite area to the light's source elongated trailing lights and smalliguous windows  elongated trailing lights on one on two occasions reports have been received of the sighting of  multiple units and then they're just trying to figure out what this is so they concluded it's  not meteorites and they're saying look this is either something a natural phenomenon that we've  never encountered before or it's man-made and they had no explanation for either of those  like there was no reason to think it was man-made there was no reason to think it was a natural  phenomenon of some sort so they were essentially within the realm of what they're allowed to discuss  they're stumped so that's the fbi memo and it just proves um if nothing else that 70 years ago  that memo was 70 years old you've got descriptions of objects duplicating or possibly surpassing  what we're seeing with the tic-tac ufo so if you're going to argue that we're talking uh you  know man-made breakaway civilization  secret tech okay fine but i think you've got to make the case for the 1940s as well i think  that you can't do one without the other uh just two i think two more memos and then i'm out of  here uh this is a classified message from robin's air force base this is july 10th 1951 this is a  very interesting memo it's not quite getting into tic-tac capabilities necessarily uh because  there's not enough data here but it concerns an encounter by the pilot of an f-51 um  um  as the mustang great aircraft fighter plane out of lawson air force base in georgia here's an image  of the f-51 formerly the p-51 during world war ii these were the last uh front line fighter  aircraft that were prop driven before the jet um the f-86 jet kind of replaced it as a top line  fighter aircraft but they were amazing they had a cruising speed of over 350 miles per hour they  could gun it to over 440 miles per hour and they could gun it to over 440 miles per hour  very fast yeah and uh great maneuverability they were awesome planes highly effective in world war  ii so it was that type of an aircraft that this pilot was flying in 1951 and the report describes  these are all quotes out of the report object described as flat on top and bottom  and appearing from a front view to have rounded edges and slightly beveled from view as object  dived from the top of the plane,  was completely round and spinning in a clockwise direction.  I guess I should say the pilot said that this object came right at him  and zoomed, dove down, and then went under his plane as he was flying.  So we'll go on.  We've definitely heard that in the more recent accounts.  Yeah, another close encounter in the air where these things are zooming.  Right, maybe you're thinking of the Navy encounter from 2014, 2015.  You've got the F-A-18 Super Hornets.  They're flying in tandem, and this thing zooms right between them.  Well, also the pilot reports this from the Tic Tac video as well,  or the Tic Tac account as well.  How Fravor is circling around, the object comes up to meet him  and then zooms off.  Right, exactly.  So they go on here.  Object did not appear to be aluminum.  Only one object observed, solar, white, no vapor trail or exhaust  or visible system of propulsion.  Described as traveling at tremendous speed.  That's the only speed we can get out of this thing,  but it's apparently very fast.  Pilot states the object was about 300 to 400 feet from his plane,  about 10 or 15 feet in diameter.  States that he felt a disturbance in the air,  described as a bump when the object passed under plane.  This is a very specific description here.  Pilot is considered by associates to be highly reliable of mature judgment  and a creditable observer.  So that's Robbins Air Force Base.  This is a report from 1951.  And then this is the last one I want to get into here.  And this has all been one of the most interesting reports of the 50s  that I have read through Freedom of Information.  It was a classified message from the headquarters  of the Tennessee Military District, 1953, the summer.  And this was an incident over Oak Ridge,  the Atomic Energy Commission facility there on July 19th of that year.  Now, Oak Ridge, like Los Alamos,  is a very important facility.  It was a scene of multiple ongoing violations of its airspace by unknown objects.  This was a regular occurrence at Oak Ridge, just as Los Alamos.  These are important places of nuclear technology, obviously.  So objects aren't just supposed to be flying around over any of these places.  And yet, I want to read what happened here.  This is the report, and I'm going to do a little close up.  So what happened was an employee of Oak Ridge,  an engineer, and his wife, who was off duty at the time, but there,  he's got binoculars, so he's able to watch what's happening.  He sees an F-86 aircraft.  These are new, the Sabre, and they're the first really front-line jet aircraft  that the U.S. was using back then.  And he's observing it flying over Oak Ridge, making circles.  It's just circling over the region.  About 10, 15 minutes, he's watching this go on.  And then it leaves.  And after it leaves,  he sees, this is a quote,  a black object moved out of a high white cloud directly over the area  where the F-86 had been flying.  And I should point out the F-86 was flying at a fairly low altitude, maybe 3,000 feet.  This thing was much higher, 12,000, maybe 15,000 feet, but it was in the same area.  So it comes out of this cloud.  The report continues, this object began to travel at a tremendous speed in a large,  circle for at least five minutes.  This is going on.  His observation was that it was at times it looked cigar-shaped,  at times it looked round.  And he goes on.  This object was extremely black in color.  That's interesting.  Not just black, but extremely black.  Having an appearance of a deep black metal exterior with a fine gloss.  So that's a pretty good observation, right?  It did not leave a vapor trail.  Or were there any lights?  But after just a couple of meteors of alguns makes of shine noticed,  no sound was heard.  The object flew east at a tremendous speed for what appeared to be about approximately  three miles where it stopped.  So again, tremendous speed, three miles, stops.  The object was then joined by two more of the same object a formation similar to a spread  V was formed in the objects at a tremendous speed.  And that was it, they were gone.  So that's an amazing encounter  that seems to have been taken quite seriously  by the people who made the report.  And very tic-tac UFO again, right?  Stopping, starting, amazing speeds.  They're not giving miles per hour here,  but it's obviously very, very fast.  And I think it's interesting too,  that you've got this F-86 that seems to have been  kind of patrolling the area looking for this,  is what it looks like to me.  We can only guess on that,  but that is surely what it seems like.  So this is an old story.  And I was researching these cases 25 years ago  when I was breaking into this field for the first time.  I thought they were fascinating.  And you get a heck of a time trying to get  the mainstream public to listen to these types of cases.  Military people are into it.  A lot of very, very astute researchers  know that these are legit cases.  But it was very hard to break through the mainstream.  So now you've got the tic-tac UFO case that's done so.  Right.  And I think we're glad that it has done so.  Yeah, I believe we are, yeah.  But it is not the only case.  There are so many, many others.  So I just want people to be aware.  We can come back to this.  And there's many, many other cases we can discuss.  Just to point out, this ain't new, people.  This is an old story.  So that's what I wanted to just get into.  I think that this is something where,  let's not forget our history.  It's my only request.  Let's not forget our history.  And I would like to see us bring the larger, longer history  into the conversation as we continue  to engage the public on the nature of this phenomenon.  I'm going to come back in the future  and get into some other early cases,  again, to remind people that tic-tac UFO type capabilities,  this is not from 2004 onward.  This goes back all the way.  Even this type of craft has been, I think, a big part of it.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  It's been around for some time as well.  I'm pretty sure that the Valensole case was a tic-tac  or egg-shaped, was it not?  You're talking about the case in France in 1965?  In France.  Egg-shaped craft.  Yeah.  Egg-shaped.  So those types of shapes were showing up  in a series of French UFO accounts.  That's right.  So the shape is not unique either.  Absolutely.  So OK, well, good.  I don't have anything else to throw out  at people for tonight.  I don't know if you do.  No.  I think it's great that you're reminding us of the history.  And I think it's great that you're also  talking about how it might be important that TTSA is opening  up this dialogue for everyone.  Well, I like more of the mainstream  that never was looking at this before, so.  I like that they've opened up the dialogue.  You know, people are going to hate me for that.  I get hate mail from some really intense people out there.  Look, I'm not saying that.  Everything that they're saying is something  that I personally agree with.  I do not like the fact that the history of the phenomenon  has been taken out of this and out of all the ways  that they're speaking about UFOs.  I don't believe, for an instant, when they say things like,  we don't know what this is.  Right, but are we?  That's a game.  They're just playing a game here.  Right, but are we happy that mainstream is now  having these dialogues and that it's in the news or not?  Well, I'm extremely happy that, if nothing else,  Tucker Carlson on Fox is having these dialogues.  He's having these conversations with people  on a regular basis on his show.  I don't think anyone at any of the other networks  is doing this right now.  But he is, and more power to him.  I'm glad to see a serious non-giggle factor  type of conversation happening again and again on this.  So that's all good, and we just need to keep going further.  This is a long, long road.  We're talking 70-plus years of deep, deep lies.  And I don't think any longer that they can just  end, like, overnight.  I don't think that's going to be  easy or possible.  I think what we're looking at is it's got to be step by step.  And look, I'm not even saying that we're ever  going to get to the goal line.  I'm not sure that's going to happen.  I don't know if that's going to happen.  In other words, could the current movement  toward openness on this subject just stall and die?  Yes, absolutely it can.  There's nothing inherent saying this has to go to the goal line.  It could get stopped.  And that's always something to keep in mind.  But.  Mm-hmm.  But more and more has been coming out, and it can't go back in.  It's out.  It's in the public domain.  So I have a feeling we've already hit a certain critical mass,  where the mainstream conversation on this UFO phenomenon  has reached a point where it's really  going to be very difficult, if not impossible,  to put it fully back in the bottle.  So we're going to be in a new place, if this all settles out,  someplace short of.  Short of disclosure.  It's still going to settle out someplace,  and we're going to be having different types  of public conversations than we have been having  over the past 10, 20, 30 years.  So we'll just have to see where this ends up.  But again, one thing that I want to maintain  is that there's a long history here,  and a long history of security classification  about this phenomenon.  So again, when they say we don't know what this is,  could be just another element of compartmentation.  It's a combination where one little compartment may not know.  There's another compartment that may know.  We've got all different possibilities here,  but someone knows.  And the fact is, if you know, which you do,  you can be sure that someone in more secure places  within the intelligence community structure  or private industry knows even more.  So on that basis, how about we wrap this up?  Yep, sounds like a good idea.  It's been fun.  So yeah.  We've recorded an edition of Intelligent Disclosure.  We'll figure out doing a live method on this as soon as we can.  But we wanted to give you something  while we were working through the technology.  Yep.  I think that's it.  That's it.  All right, everyone.  Have a great night.  Catch you next.  We'll see you soon.  Catch you next time.  We won't be doing a show next week,  but we'll probably catch up next week after that.  What about Saturday for you?  I'll be, well, I don't know.  I'm going to be doing some travel.  We'll see.  If I can do a prerecord, I'll see what I can do.  OK.  All right.  Later, everyone.  Take care, everyone.  Bye.  Bye.  Thanks for watching.  If you like what you see, please click the Like button,  subscribe to my YouTube channel, and click  to receive notifications.  All that really helps me.  And do see what Tracy and I are up to on our website,  richarddolanmembers.com.
