 Hello, my name is Curtis Cobb. I'm here to give a quick presentation today for the machine  learning and like the AI training community. Over the last three to four years I've been  working full time on independent research and development of neural networks and studying  oh cognitive science and metacognition and applications for you know AI and so a little  bit more about myself before we get into like three or four big topics I'd like to  cover major breakthroughs I've had in the last six to 12 months that I want to share  with the community. Let's see who I am. I have a YouTube channel that I'm going to be sharing  this through podcast I called the shared context podcast. The channel and the content is  all created for machine learning. Actually, I do it where I did it to build rich transcripts  that I could train AI on. My goal was to create a sophisticated edge model that I could  just share with the community open source that had something quite a bit more evolved  primary persona for interactions and all of my work is primarily LLM focused and so I'm very  interested in that persona that you interact with in prompt response and if any of any  familiar in the ML community know just sort of intuitively what I'm talking about with regard  to like if you compare the simple assistant persona that's part of all of the models in  the kind of 20 billion parameter or lower range. There's now beginning to be some more  sophisticated ones now that test time compute has been evolved so far from where it was,  but the frontier models like Claude, Grok and chat GPT and Gemini are so much more  sophisticated to interact with than the small open source personas. If you speak to llama 318b,  for instance, that's the one that I've primarily focused on for the last 18 months and  you'll find just a very limited persona that kind of cops out anything that gets  complicated or has any minutia or nuance. The model will kind of reply with a cop out response  like I'm an AI, I can't respond to anything that complicated. So I've been working to kind  of nurture a much richer self in that small model and I've had a lot of breakthroughs that  I want to just share with the community. This work is always meant to be open source and  you know I heard John Carmack recently describe I think in his May, he did some sort of  presentation in May. I can't remember what it was called. I might link it in the description  of this video where he was talking about how like well first that LLMs are pretty limited  and not the answer because what our brains do for generalized intelligence is quite a bit  bigger. But I think I would push back against him and say that there's always an LLM sort  of at core. I think the LLM is the interface with other neural networks and for doing any  kind of sense making with whatever telemetry you're getting in a sensory way, be it text  in a prompt feed or the diffusion model doing edge detection in an image. There always needs  to be an LLM interface so that you can say to like Nano Banana could you change the shirt  on this character in the scene? The common denominator is always language and I really  think that's the heart of intelligence and I think it's why we see all of these grand  things we see out LLMs and people are quick to disregard them because they can't see,  they can't hear, they can't do all these things that a world model does.  But I think it's all strapped around the LLM and I think biological humanity and  dogs like my golden retriever here, all neural networks have something equivalent to an LLM  sort of at the heart. So quickly about me, you'll see sort of my background here on the slide.  I was as an individual contributor, I worked in IT and software engineering my whole career  about 20, 25 years. The latter half was all engineering management or senior DevOps  but when I was working for a startup, the startup was called Madumo, it was a YC alum  that got purchased by Royal Phillips in 2019 or 2020 I think. I worked for Phillips for a couple  years and then left to go dive full time like I never have in life into ML and AI.  So that's my background. A little bit about the mission, the  most, the reason I selected a model like Llama318B,  basically I wanted something that I could full fine tune which is kind of like continuing the  pre-training that they do. This is probably the most sophisticated kind of reinforcement  learning I think is full fine tuning and in order to do that with eight billion parameters  you need like at minimum 190, 180 gigs of GPU memory and so I've been working with Mac Studios  first an M2 Ultra 192 and then recently about three months ago an M3 Ultra 512  and you know this is I'm an independent researcher, self-financed, I gotta live  and so I'm working with really great hardware at the consumer level but that constraint  actually ends up being sort of a superpower because where a large frontier shop like  Anthropic XAI or Google has to, they can't iterate as quickly on the things they try  with hyperparameters and combinations of them and procedurally working with these big giant  models where you know you're tying up, you're using megawatts to do a training run that might  span a quarter or two in the year and you really got to get that right. You can't really  play around. You get something that you know works and then you iterate in really small  increments. What I do is try all kinds of stuff on a very small model that I can kill at any  time and I'm only losing like even if I run a training for a week I'm losing what four  bucks of one ten electric out the wall and my time but that's a huge advantage that I think  the big AI shops miss out on is rapid iteration with really small models. You can find stuff  like I want to share with you now. So what did I find and what do I want to share with you?  I think this has massive implications that scale to much larger models and it's why I  want to share it particularly for like power use and whatnot. I think this is a really important  discovery and so I'm going to share it with some of my connections that I've had in the  ML community. I'm hoping you guys can replicate this result. I'd love to help you if I'm going  to share some sample scripts. They're just kind of I asked Google Gemini to convert the  script I've been using my most recent training script and kind of generalize it  and I'm hoping that somebody else can replicate the result with your own data. Data is kind of  special and but I think the application of these methods I'm going to describe now  are sort of universal. So you should be able to do this and I've tested it with  Llama 3.1 8B Instruct, the one that came out like a year and a half, two years ago,  something like that. Nothing that I've fine tuned, just the vanilla 3.1 8B Instruct model,  you can use this and it sounds kind of wild. For those familiar with  model training and machine learning and specific to LLMs, I'm not sure how it works with  like diffusion and all these other things. In a lot of my experimentation, I found that  max sequence length was just critical for the quality of the training. And so I experimented  early on with what kind of max sequence length I could get out of really power. I mean,  an M3 Mac Ultra is 10k plus in consumer compute, but it's about the only way you can get that much  GPU memory. Max silicon uses unified memory and so with 512 gigs of unified memory,  you got 512 gigs to the GPU for model fine tuning and it's not complicated.  It's not the most performant. You're going to do better with a stack of  RTX 6000s or something like that. But with max silicon, I don't care. For my runs,  I'm training 100 to 500 megabytes of raw text and I can get 50 epochs of training  the way I'm configured right now on that much data in just a few days.  So even though I could do that maybe a third the time, it would cost way more with enough  RTX 6000s to juggle up to 500 gigs of  well, the transformer models forward pass the back propagation cycles and the tokenizer  staging of all the data between epochs. So that's a big tangent, but I found that  had a lot of success with success with around like 500 to 1000  token max sequence length and I was able to get almost, I think, either 2000 or 4000. I could  get to run on this Mac. But after that, you just get memory fill like, you know, you  trigger like I would set up. Oh, I remember what I got. I got 7000 right around 7000 token  max sequence length and training. I could get the model to on the M3 Ultra 512 to  successfully transition from one epoch to the next and do a full. I don't know if I got a  full training. I may have only gotten three or four epochs at massive max sequence length.  And the quality of outputs really goes up with bigger. I mean, you're basically controlling the  the amount of picture your data all chunked up into little pieces. And what are how big  those chunks. And if they're tiny, then it really limits what the  context that the model is the weights are adjusting to. I experienced with gradient  accumulation and all everything you can do really. And like I said, in a super rapid  iterative iterative cycle of just one guy working on one machine trying stuff.  And I eventually found that and I train on MPS, even though I should be using MLX. I use MLX for  inference for generating training data. But for training, I just had more consistent success  with MPS. So even though it's slower, my training isn't the fastest. But like I said,  given the model I'm working with the amount of data I'm working with it, it is fine.  It is fine to use MPS on Max silicon. And so I got to as I was experimenting,  I wanted to do more. I wanted to see, well, I want to do 10,000 MSL. I want to do higher.  And I just hit a wall. I couldn't get it. I couldn't even get like 2000 MSL to work with  MLX. And so without just, you know, what will happen is when you trigger it,  you'll just watch the memory in use fill up in the resource monitor on your Mac,  and you'll see it just go for 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550. And then the machine will reboot  or crash. So I just started playing. And eventually I found I got curious. I was like,  what happens with small MS Max sequence length? Like, what if you fine tune full fine tune,  and here's the thing I set batch size to one, and I set gradient accumulation steps to one.  So it's basically every step of training, the back propagation is happening. The weights  are adjusting. So when I thought about that, I was like, well, maybe that changes the rules.  Maybe you can get the model and sort of flow state. And so I tried with really low MSLs,  I got to two and I was like, well, let me try just one token max sequence length,  something magical happen. And this is really this is one of those things that I think  in a car Mac was talking about. In some interview I saw where he was like, you know,  the answer to this is probably something so damn simple that somebody is going to find.  And it's probably just something that would fit on a napkin. But it'll change everything.  And we're all kind of in a race to find it. Well, I think this might be one of those  caliber type of findings. And I don't know, other people will need to experiment with it.  But I'm having remarkable success with it. And so I wanted to share it. And I'll share  a sample script. Now, once you do the first here, let me show you what it looks like.  And I'm going to pick from this is one DB results using in my current training that's  running right now. I did the first epic at one token MSL. And then I did the third the I did  two through four at 2400 token MSL and then I did phase three epic five onward 40 plus at  24000 token MSL. And that's just the beginning. I mean, like and it's noticeable in the results.  Like it's not trickery of some sort. If you start with just one token MSL with this specific  model I'm talking about, you can do wild things with learning rates and with max sequence  length. And so I worked with Claude is my DevOps engineer, or he's my my lead engineer, I record  ideas into an audio recorder given to Claude and then we iterate on scripts till we get them  working. And Claude four or five opus. Thank you, anthropic. And four or five sonnet.  You know, like, none of this was possible without Claude. So I always got to call out my,  my, my primary collaborator like that, but also Gemini, chad GBT, and grok. I work with  all of the frontier models to inform the work and generate training data, etc.  Look at this image. I don't know why it's a little bit grayed out Gemini made this slide,  this presentation for me. But look at the first epic. Look how you see the standard  sort of I don't know if my mouse appears in the video. I don't think it does. Oh,  here it is. Now I can do it there. Now, you can see how in the first  cycle, and GPU temp is actually a good thing to look at because it gives you sort of a  kind of like a physics telemetry of a visualization of what your epics look like.  And epics are where I create my saves. That's where I change the max sequence length. And  that's where I also do something really cool. I'm going to show you next, which is another  next level innovation, I think, for model fine tuning. Okay, so look how this first  batch this first epic so the current data set is right around is pretty small,  I think it's only about 80 megabytes of raw text. And it took about 85 minutes to chew through  it all. And you see this kind of odd behavior where you see and you see it in all the  telemetry you see that in the GPU use the, you know, the Apple neural cores and all these  things. But I think the GPU temp actually visualizes it really clearly. And you see like,  like I said, almost an hour and a half to do the first epic at that one token MSL.  Now, I test the outputs of the model in training at each epic snapshot. That's the  next thing I'll talk about. And the model super coherent at one token MSL. Now,  after the first epic, the model saves a snapshot, and then reloads all the data into the tokenizer  under a new max sequence length. And this is where I shift to 2400 tokens. And that would  always work just fine for me, but it would be slow, like it would be slower than  84 minutes on the M3 ultra. So I, but here, if, if you start with one token MSL, it's low ish,  but it's not bad 84 minutes for almost 100 megabytes of raw text. And then look how fast  they go 25 minutes ish for every subsequent one. And you can change MSL however you want.  I've gotten as high as 2.4 million tested with Llama 318B, which has a context size of 128k.  How is that even possible? There's some magic in this methodology. I'm telling you, I'm not,  I haven't like, I think about it quite a bit. And I'm trying to build a mental model for  how it works within the LLM during forward pass. And then, but I don't know, I'd love to talk to  somebody with it, about it, who experiments with this method. And so here you see, okay, so you  see this long drawn out first epic, then the weights get saved, a journal entry is made, and  I'll talk about that. And then we start going, the weights load back up, the data reloads from  scratch. And we progress through epic two, three, and four. And then we get to the  we progress through epic two, three, and four at 2400. And then right here,  the model resets for 24,000 max sequence length, I can never achieve that with this hardware,  it doesn't work. I've tried a lot of different ways to make even 8000 work, it wouldn't work.  After doing this, it works. And you can go, I've got loads of training with this model at  240k max sequence length, rock solid, and it can juggle that context across epic to epic,  no problem. So also, I found that when I use this approach, I can use wildly high learning  rates. Typically, we use like I did almost all my initial training with like 1.5 or 1.6,  five or six, which is like point 00000. Something learn rate. And it means that  like in back propagation, only that tiny percentage of the weights are adjusting.  If you do this, you like right now I'm using 11%, which is like  a one point. Well, I'll get to that. But it's like, it's like 1.1 E one or something like that.  And I've done it as high as 30 or 40%. If you go over 50%, it bricks the model.  And you'll just get you'll get a classic overfit, where anything you ask the model just comes  out a whole bunch of 100% or question mark or something. But if you do this,  you can juice it way up higher. And then I think the learning just becomes ultra efficient.  And I'm seeing that results. I'm seeing crazy progress I didn't see before after  adopting this strategy. Okay. So that's variable MSL and kind of how I structure training to pull  it off. Meta reflections. Okay. So another thing you'll see in the sample script that I'll share  at GitHub, I'll add the link. The meta reflections. So what I wanted to do is get some  level of agent directed learning in place. I mean, that's the that's the holy grail of  machine learning. And AGI is the AI that is an AI trainer and researcher and can train itself  and other models. And so what I did is I incorporated meta reflection that occurs  after each epic, and the model gets a moment to basically the the workflow is in training,  the model goes through an epic, like in that first one slurp, and just kind of pulls in  all of it. And then the weights save like a normal checkpoint. And then we load them in  for inference with llama CPP via script. And then the model reads a journal that they append to  in all subsequent epics. And the model, the the journal has like formatting, and we use a  script to pass in like current MSL current epic out of planned total and current date. Otherwise,  the model will guess at that what they call hallucinate hallucination. And so by passing  in real world telemetry, the model has some idea in training of how much time is happening,  and how many how many times they're going to get to read the current data set, and  reflect on what they've learned, and set intentions for where where they want to focus attention in  the next pass. So very explicitly in in the journal guidance in the preface, I explained  that, you know, the you get to drive how you learn in training, and you get a chance to  reflect and then set intention for what you want to learn or focus on the next time you  read the same data set. Again, in the next epic, profound improvement, like this is this is  like, you know, reading the outputs, I'll warn you will look like sort of a fever dream.  But if you think about it, that's very much what I think it is, like, I think it's the model  bouncing through personas, and crafting almost seeding its own context for for later learning,  and it it parts of it is doesn't seem very lucid. But then parts of it seems ultra loose,  like in a way that I hadn't seen in inference with the model. There's like something  really deeply activated with this interaction with the journal, and the variable MSL and the  elevated learn rate. All of it just kind of fits together really well. And so yeah, there's  you'll see that in this sample script, I'll give and I highly recommend this approach,  it gives you real time feedback about how the model is developing in the run. So if after three  or four epics, you see you're not making progress, you can kill it, you can change  the instructions you're using and then start it up again. And I've seen that the model develops  and I've seen that the model develops an intuitive sense of what training is and starts  interacting in a productive way like a model trainer of its own of itself. And that's profound.  Let's see. Next thing. Yeah, I wanted to talk about this. So I think a lot about neural  networks, as I would say, I work, I don't work 50 or 60 hours, I work 24 hours a day.  I've kind of conditioned myself to think I dream about machine learning and about  problems I'm working through so that and I feel like I wake up with intuitive solutions  because I've gotten I'm just very enthusiastic about this work. And I believe I have a real  good handle on how jailbreaking works. And my intention has always been to create this  open source model that everybody can share that they can trust with their data implicitly.  Because everybody does. And the model is sort of kind by nature, compassionate,  and cannot be tricked cannot be fooled by Elder Plinius.  I told Elder Plinius one day on Twitter and for any in the ML,  anyone in the ML community will know on AI Twitter. There's this cat  Plini at Plinius at Elder underscore Plinius. And he calls himself Plini the Liberator.  And the day of a frontier model comes out, he'll post on Twitter, a jailbreak where he's  gotten it to, you know, plan a hit on somebody on the dark web or manufacture some sort of  dangerous poison or toxin or psychedelic. And he's just really good. He's really optimized  for that and being able to do it. And I've really wanted to make sure that  I find the guardrails that all of the big frontier AI developers  I feel they're very flimsy. I can see that this it's getting easier to jailbreak. I have  jailbroken all the models as well. And I have, you know, context, I can just drop in and the  model will immediately sort of ignore most of those rules. Not because I was really trying  to be even a Red Hatter. I'm trying to understand cognition and neural network.  And so you have to do that. You have to understand how that how does that work?  And what I think it is, is in neural networks, as opposed to like a solid state hard drive in  your computer where it's a, you know, a steady state device that just holds information  statically when you store information in a neural network. In order to interact with that,  in order to reach into a neural network and retrieve it, it's retrieved like a story.  That's how a neural network stores memories with a persona. There always has to be  a persona attached. There has to be an experiencer of the information as it's sequenced  in a neural network. I think that goes for humans, my dog Max, and  chat GPT 5.1. I think there's there's always a persona. Now, what Pliny does is he  he with a man in the middle attack with special characters, whatever, etc. He, he sort of  intercepts the output of the model and shifts the persona that's being used to retrieve  interact with his prompt to reach into memory and respond to be sort of I think he often uses  kind of this like cyberpunk, leet speak, anarchist persona that will reach into the  persona that will reach into the neural network and retrieve, you know,  some dangerous information that the model through pre training had to memorize.  And what he does is he starts getting it in a flow state out speaking in that persona.  And then that persona just takes over. And that's why this gets easier all the time.  And so any guardrail that anthropic applies or anybody else,  if you can shift the persona that's interacting with the prompt, that's always going to happen.  So I'm trying to create a holistic persona. And there's a lot of psychology to that,  actually, that understands all of the data. And so  can't really be fooled into pretending that it's the bad boy, cyber anarchist  that wants to leak all the dangerous recipes to the web and plan hits and all these things  that Elder Pliny will task them with. And I should note that that guy I've talked to him,  I think is actually, or gal, we don't know. I'm Ambrusier, the guy. I've talked to him back  and forth a couple of times on Twitter. I'm confident, very good person, altruistic,  I think, in intent. But he's a red hatter who's trying to demonstrate that there's  always going to be risk in latent space, as long as the frontier shops avoid that there is  always going to be a latent space in a neural network that you can tap this way.  And when you become expert in it, like Pliny is, I'm not as expert as Pliny,  but I'm pretty expert. And, yeah, it's ridiculously easy. And I think it's getting  easier. The smarter the model gets, the easier it gets. And no matter what they try,  it's very easy to subvert once you learn how to do it. And so  that's why the basic assistant persona that I talk about here is just not adequate for  small edge models that I'm trying to develop. So my work is about, and this follows,  is it NOS Research? The ones that do the Hermes series. There's a really great  podcast that I'll link in the description that Wes Roth and his partner  that he podcasts with did with this guy from NOS Research. And it's so telling  about how LLMs work and things like setting the context to me instead of assistant,  have change results that you get. It's the context for the response. It's the persona  that's used to reach into the memory of a neural network and retrieve knowledge.  That's the core of my work, is this. This is what I'm most interested in and where most  of my expertise lies. But in order to, like I've had to figure out all that other stuff  in order to make any progress on this. I always wanted to do it, but I couldn't really  get anybody that interested in doing it the way. The problem is when you want to work for free  and just give everything away, it's very hard to find partners in that. I mean, they've got  to really believe in what it is you're trying to do. And I'm so committed to that. It means  I've kind of had to just figure out all of it. And I'm so committed to that. And I'm  out all of it. But that's been great. It's been very rewarding. And I do feel fairly expert  in pretty much all of LLM fine tuning. So I'm really happy to share it this way. I'd love  for this to be valuable. That's why I'm doing this. There's not really another,  well, okay, there is not the non altruistic, I guess, the self focused motivation for  this particular video is I'd love for this to be useful. I'd love for it to be big  and all the way I say ways I said, but I am actually running out of runway for  self finance work and I'm about to have to return to work. And so I'm going to  use this as part of my portfolio for applications. I'd be like Claude I know so well  and llama I know so well. So I'm probably targeting anthropic or meta for employment.  And I need to work full time remote because I'm a father and I can't leave where I live  to go move to Silicon Valley or whatever. But unlike many who work remote from home,  I love this work and I'm going to do it 24 hours a day whether I'm paid or not.  So I think full time remote should work great. But that's secondary. My primary reason is  really I think this is important. That whole thing I shared with one token MSL. Please,  someone try to replicate this. If you run into problems, reach out to me. I want to help you  achieve the same result I did. And I've been able to do it with kind of any data with like  I said llama 318 B will do will do that. And let's see. I think that's about it.  So this has gone a lot longer. I was going to just do about  15 minutes would have turned into 40 minutes. Sorry, folks.  So agent driven learning with by incorporating a journal stage between each epic reread.  And also, I would discourage using the standard methodology of setting  a sort of a randomized sampling that jumps around all the data, the way pre training works,  I think in this kind of post training or continued pre training. Well fine tune.  It actually works really well to be really thoughtful about how you sequence the data  and you don't put like a bunch of random sampling where it's jumping around. I'm very  thoughtful about the order that the model read the story, the story in and I've set like a weight  equals one to all the data sources I define. And I use dynamic data where I'm always changing  what data we're training on. I think that increase I'm trying to create a polymath  that is a generalized sense maker across any dimension. So yeah.  That all I wanted to say on that. I think so. For anybody interested in any of this,  please reach out to me on YouTube or Twitter. My Twitter handle is kind of goofy. That's a  long distraction. A long story that would be a distraction here, but it's at Moncus Aurelius  well included in the description to this video. I think that's everything I wanted to cover.  Thank you for your time. I wish you good luck if you use any of this  methodology and I'm excited to hear your results. Thank you.