Gold, lava, plasma, some type of fluid going over and around the craft.  What is it that you saw and found out and can tell us about?  I only came for them because I sincerely believed they were going to die.  Sucks.  I think what we are dealing with is very, very, very old.  I think old humans have written those down in religious stories.  I think that it's quite clear that we have been influenced by something else.  I provided three rudimentary drawings, one of which was unclassified,  and the other two were immediately thrown into a sap.  And the two that were thrown into a sap prove we are not alone.  In this episode of Weaponized, you will notice that we chose to censor certain  details within Dylan's testimony, most unrelated to UAP.  This is to avoid unauthorized disclosures and is subject to an ongoing clearance review.  Dylan was  given only six days to prepare his testimony for Congress.  He is currently seeking clarity on being able to publicly discuss  certain aspects of his professional experience.  What is it that you saw and found out and can tell us about?  Well, we can go into it.  I don't know how much is going to come out.  Okay, let's hear it and then we'll figure it out later.  So basically, hypothetically speaking, let's say that I claim I saw a Bigfoot running around  Nevada Test Range and I saw a Bigfoot outside the Starbucks and Bigfoot was wearing a  U.S. Air Force uniform.  If I said that to Arrow or to the IG, but mainly Arrow, and Arrow comes back and says,  and I draw a nice picture of Bigfoot in a pretty Air Force uniform.  Let's say Arrow comes back and says, hey, Dylan, you're talking about Starbucks is unclassified.  You're talking about Bigfoot in that military uniform.  That's TS, no foreign.  You are never to say another word about that.  That's what Arrow did to me.  And they classified everything I brought forward.  So you're working for BAE and for somebody else.  Yep.  For somebody else in the structure of.  Multi-agency special access program.  Yes, sir.  And it's under the umbrella of a private company.  The private company is how they are getting us to work there.  But it is all under the umbrella of that agency.  The information you had about these flying Tic Tacs that people are taking down.  Do you get that information through your work at BAE?  There were people who ended up working there with me,  who were brought into the legacy program, whose lives were also destroyed.  And they believe based off of what I was saying about what I experienced in my life,  the triangle, what I knew that to be true at that point, they believe.  I was read into the program and they believe that because I was having the clearance issues  and the VA issues and everything else, the financial, what they did to me,  they were experiencing it too.  And there were multiple people who I was.  Working with that were a part of what is conveyed as a legacy program.  So you're working at BAE for an agency and on a coffee break or a smoke break,  you convert with your coworkers and you tell them about something you've seen,  and they start sharing information with you.  Yes, but not even all that openly because people were still so freaked out about it.  And this gets into something else, which is when I was there and this is why.  We talked to Dave and I explained this to Dave.  One of the things that was very odd was, you're working 12 hours and it's middle of the night,  three in the morning after working a 12 hour shift, fourth day in the row, you're  just doing anything to stay awake.  I remember you're talking about UFOs and you talk about everything from football,  to baseball, to movies, to music.  It's just, you're trying to stay awake.  You're trying to get through the night or the day.  And we were talking about UFOs and.  Bazaar come up and you're just talking normal talk.  Yeah.  And I remember I had talked about what I knew to be true.  And I had gotten a pop-up message on my computer.  It said, you know, you're not supposed to be talking about this to this day tech to this day,  aside from having gone to the IG and what was conveyed to me by my attorney to this day,  technically I have never gone in an official Dylan.  Here's what's happening.  Do not do this.  Here's why it has been the subliminal pot shots.  But there were more multiple people that I was working with that were well aware of the reality  of this subject and considering where I worked, the finances that went into there and how much  money funneled through there and how many programs we touched, that there were a number of people  that were well aware of the reality of this situation.  The UFO subject had been a part of quote unquote legacy programs had gone to TD wise had done it,  but most of the people that were aware that were, most of them were younger.  Most of them had had their careers destroyed, their lives destroyed.  Most of them believe that me talking about what I was dealing with, with my clearance  and all their problems.  I was dealing with the company and the agencies.  They thought it was safe to talk to me about their own experiences in the legacy program.  They assume you knew more than you were saying.  100%.  So it's almost like, it sounds like they put all the bad eggs in one basket.  It's like, you know, all the.  Yeah.  These guys knew too much and they're blabbing.  We'll put them all over here with you.  Pretty much.  That's.  And was there surveillance of the employees?  How did the information go to a higher up that would send you a message says shut the hell up?  I mean, you're on an ops floor and you know, you have people from every agency you can think of in  there and you're on computer systems are closed access and there's government employees and  contract employees from multiple different contract companies.  And.  And knowing what I know now at, in hindsight, knowing the way that these legacy programs work,  if you're not embedded in the company or coming as a government representative,  it's TDYs and knowing the government has TDY requirements, depending on what agency you work for.  Some of these people probably found their way over the TDY and they had heard me talking about  things that, uh, they thought they were far more important than they really are.  And thought that I shouldn't be.  Talking about it.  You're just bullshitting with coworkers.  Pretty much just talking.  And they are with you.  Is there somebody in there that's counterintelligence that was sent in there to see who's clapping?  I would towards the later.  And I would bet.  So towards the later.  And I would bet.  So at that point, you're not filing reports or calling New York times or raising hell.  No, I.  To be honest with you, George, uh, talking to the media was so ingrained into me and  other people in the work we did that it was like persona non grata, like if you went and  talked to anybody else.  Like you're a dead man.  You wouldn't have done it.  No, I mean, even whenever I felt that I had to, I was shaking.  Um, even when I went to Senate, when I went to Congress, I was shaking.  Is this why your, uh, clearance was sort of put in limbo?  It doesn't exist because you're saying things you shouldn't be talking about.  I think early on, it was a mistake.  And I talked with Dave brush about this.  I think early on, it was a mistake.  They were notified six, seven months into it.  And then from then on.  They outright just did not care.  They terrorize me.  I mean, I would go into work.  I, they were notified by multiple companies that they were not housing my clearance correctly.  Multiple companies try to pick me up.  Multiple companies said they would give me a pay raise, a better job.  I couldn't take any of it.  They notified BAE, they filed complaints and I got the runaround between the company, the  two agencies that I work for.  Um, but long story short, it is my opinion in hindsight and other people who are also  whistleblowers and other people have worked in these programs.  That is a standard operating procedure by these people to keep this quiet.  Your career has been in classified programs.  Yeah.  Your trainees have been in classified programs.  They now tell you, you don't have a clearance.  You can't go to work anywhere else.  You are frozen here, whether you like it or not.  Yup.  16 hours a day doing light shift weekends, holidays.  Days for $62,000 a year.  Yup.  Well, to be clear, you, you had a clearance.  It's not like they said you don't have when you lost it.  They're keeping it in a purgatory, which is a technique we've heard over and over of how  to keep people somewhere and, and almost like try to squeeze them out through pressure.  So I just want to make that clear.  It's not like he ever had anything, a mark on his record where they're like, you no longer  have a clearance.  He was in good standing.  It's a, it's a type of purgatory people create.  So look, um, we're kind of glossing over this idea.  We're here to talk about the UAP reality.  Boom.  You see something at Langley air force base that you have testified to arrow to Congress  and Senate intelligence.  You to even people that we're not talking about, you've testified to a lot of people  officially ICIG.  You, you wanted them to know that this craft you saw, which you're thinking maybe, look,  maybe it's something we reverse engineered.  We now know through our, that it's likely not just our tech, that it might prove David  Grush's ideas about reverse engineering.  That we've been told all the way back from Lazar.  He saw an operational craft over a military installation that is far beyond.  There's no fingerprint for, we don't have that technology to the best of my understanding  at this time.  So now whose was it?  Was it a joint operation where the comms with whoever the pilots were, but it was a huge  triangle that had this electrostatic charge.  The other thing you told me that like, I want to hear more about was the gold glow, because  I've heard this.  Over and over and over like a lava lamp.  It was, it was a sort of undulating on the skin of this thing, right?  Like a basically, yeah.  The best way I can describe it is overlay.  If you're watching out a lava lamp and seeing that flow.  Place a yellow semi-transparent lava lamp flow on this craft, making 90 degree turns  and all over the craft.  And it's just this yellow transparent, almost like smoke cloud pulsating all around the  craft.  So clearly a technology like, like Matthew Brown has kind of thought that either it's  like it's non-human intelligence technology, or it's something that we've figured out how  to operate.  And it's like a breakaway civilization.  It's so advanced that this is something that's not acknowledged even to Congress, the people  that should have oversight.  So you've got that big one UFO experience, right?  The UAP experience.  Then you have this accidental exposure, but to such a high degree, I don't want to ask  the question because I don't know if you can answer, but did you physically see photos?  Did you physically see these documents?  No, but because of how much was given to me and relay that the individuals that had  related, they were doing so because they were genuinely concerned for their life because  their careers were taken, their houses were broken into, I mean, computers taken mailboxes  gone through that.  And again, they knew what I was going through at this time.  They had given me enough information.  And the agreement was that if they died, that I run with it and just blow the whole  thing off.  So he's got his firsthand experience of this tech, but then this is something George, we,  and I hear a lot, which is in the legacy, when you're kind of put into the bad camp,  you know, you're, you're, you're under scrutiny now that there are, there are these people  that are threatening you and you do feel, um, afraid for your life and, um, we'll get  to it, but there are some things that occurred to you as this gets kind of deeper and deeper  with what's happening.  But just.  To be clear.  So you're in a place where there's some sort of purgatory going on.  Everybody has clearance, but they're in this sort of purgatory.  You're in this sort of purgatory.  Right.  And then, uh, people direct directly involved the legacy program are afraid for their lives.  So they're telling you so that you can, at least somebody at their level can take that  information.  If something bad happens to it.  I think it's, it was, it was definitely that, but it was also, this is such an isolating  lonely experience, especially for young people to ex to be exposed to the reality.  Of this, if you, if you already don't have the acknowledgement that it's a possibility,  like if you're, I don't want to say close minded, if your average Joe blow going through  life, and then all of a sudden this pops up on your radar and you're seeing physical proof  of it, you probably take a step back and go well.  So you have that aspect.  Then the same people have that aspect of it.  And they also have the aspect of their government destroying them.  So they are going through the same thing.  You are.  Exactly.  They're.  Clearances are in limbo.  Home break-ins threats, uh, when I, when I come into contact with these people, they  had had to resign from their government position and take a contracting job for less money.  They were basically blacklisted for six months.  The only reason they ended up getting a job was because somebody on the legacy program  had hooked them up after six months.  And they ended up where I was at and they heard me talking all this stuff and they're  like, oh, you ended up here too, buddy.  So, uh, what the hell is.  Going on here.  It's like the island of bad toys or something like that.  You know, put them all in one basket.  After I saw what I saw and I've experienced what I've experienced.  I kinda, I think most of us have taken the delve into all of this material.  And you're like, I know this is true.  I know this is true.  I know this is true.  Who else is saying these true things?  Who else is relaying information?  I know to be true to try and make sense of your own life.  Um, they were.  Aware of what I was talking about.  I don't know the capacity in which they were briefed in.  There's things that I knew that these people were aware of it.  Even they would not say, um, one of those being biologics.  You think there's a storehouse of that information that anybody would have put something away  in case something bad happened to him.  Do you know what happened to these people?  You know, the ones that I know still continue in the government, um, I think they, they  continue to classify.  Operations programs.  They're not coming forward.  They would never come forward a million years unless they were going to die.  And that's, it really sucks for me coming forward because I only came forward because  I sincerely believe they were going to die.  Sucks.  And you yourself have had, um, really unfortunate coincidences.  We'll put it that way.  And that's one of the reasons why we started communicating was because if anything did  happen to him, he wanted to make sure some journalists like you and me knew about it.  And so I call that like a.  Perceived threat or a real threat.  I don't know.  And I think some people too, the way these things happen, you know, uh, it's hard to  put your finger on the cause of it.  I know that happened with, with David Gresh, with Matthew Brown.  You know, you can have police reports saying this happened.  I had a break into my home, but proving who did it, even though it's very coincidental  timing.  And you have one of those experiences yourself was right when, um, you're, you're leaving  this agency that you're not naming that I think we're all guessing.  Yep.  But right.  When you're leaving that employment.  Yeah.  I mean, I can fill you in there.  Um, that's a good time for that one.  So for three and a half years, I worked for BAE without the ability to take another job  and the nature of the work we did, we would get a new boss, whether a contractor or Gavi  every six months.  I mean, that was the way it was.  People were in and out of there.  Cause that job is hell.  Three and a half years into it, we get a new contractor boss and he comes in and does the  typical Dylan's line.  His clearance is fine.  He doesn't have his.  Master's degree.  He's full of crap.  And I'm like, I'm done with this, my man.  So I went to my government employee at the time who I thought I was friends with.  Um, and I told him, I was like, I want to know who your boss is.  Cause I'm going to his office right now, seven o'clock in the morning.  I'm telling him I want my stuff fixed.  He tried to tell me, don't do it.  It's going to look bad.  I was like, I've been here for three and a half years.  I cannot do this anymore.  This work is killing me.  This is insane.  This is the worst place on planet earth.  And I go to his boss.  And I walk in there.  I say, here's my name.  Here's my social look me up in J pass and scattered castles.  Cause I guarantee I'm not in there.  And verbatim, he says to me, he says, there's no way you wouldn't be allowed in the building.  I was like, you want to bet?  He looks me up and he says, oh, wow.  You haven't had a clearance since 2014.  He gets on a, I give him other names of people who were in similar situations.  Uh, and he gets on a phone call and he makes a call and he says, fix this.  Now I walk out of the building and magically my clearance plots up in  J pass and scattered castles that morning.  I get a phone call from BAE system security, and they're not happy with what I did.  I take the first job I can, which was doing teaching counter UAS.  So counter, I'm into aerial surveillance vehicles at JIDO, which became DITRA.  And, uh, long story short, I come into work a couple of weeks later and I say,  here's my two week notice.  I'm out of here.  They're like, oh, well, what can we do to keep you?  I was like, there is absolutely nothing you can do to keep me.  They're like, all right.  They're like, you got out.  I'll process well before two weeks.  I'll process in a few days.  I go and I I'll process early.  And as soon as I signed the paperwork, I rock walk out of the office and the company that  hired me, uh, contacts me and they say your clearance has been erased again.  So I lose my clearance in may.  That's may of 2018.  Uh, the company that hired me went to their prime, which was at that point tacky CACI.  And for about a month they are working.  At least they're telling me they're working on getting my clearance fixed.  And in early mid June, I am contacted by the company that hire me.  And they said, we are unable to get your clearance back in the system.  We have to move on to other candidates.  Good luck out there.  Uh, we don't think you're ever gonna get your clearance fixed that night.  I was invited out.  Uh, and I was getting ready to sell my vehicles.  I had pulled my 401k at this point.  Cause I knew I was done.  I had filed for unemployment, which they denied me for.  And on the way home, I told my.  Car and there was a police investigation and the police had told me in confidence that  my brake lines were cut.  They wanted it to look like a suicide, which goes into what the VA was doing with me and the.  Medical issues and the doctors that have resigned and all that.  So you leave somewhere you were at next thing, you know, you're pushing your, your brake  to the floor, total the car, but you're able to get home and you get home.  And then of course the police see the car totaled and they either wonder, were you sober?  Is everything okay?  And you invite them over.  We said, come do a breathalyzer.  Yep.  They said, well, it's gonna take a while.  Yep.  Um, we're gonna contact you tomorrow.  And then the lead investigative, uh, officer in that case physically comes to your home.  Yep.  And warns you that somebody tried to kill you.  Your brake lines were cut.  He verbatim said, the only reason I'm not charging you with a crime is  because your brake lines were caught.  I'm not charging for a crime.  Cause your brake lines were cut.  Is there a police report?  There is a police report of the total car.  And there's a police report of what I said to the officer, which is, I went out with  a friend who worked for the agency.  I had two, three drinks playing pool over the night, had some wings on the way home  car total.  Does it say in any police report, your brake lines were cut?  I have been searching for it.  No.  And this is what sucks is this is the most damning.  And I know what was said to me.  And this is the only thing out of all the craziness that I do have evidence to that  you guys have seen these weird, uh, polygraph tests and VA tests.  And all this, but the police report.  Verbatim saying that my brake lines were caught.  I am still trying to get a proof of that.  That's a clear cut thing, right?  It's like, it's like, you know, we can talk about the administrative  terrorism, the bizarre psychological, I'd say experiments that he had to endure.  You're working for BAE, but not really you're working.  That's the structure of this company.  You're working for an agency.  It's doing the same stuff.  Yup.  It's called redacted.  I mean, you have covered positions and unofficial coverage.  You have covered positions.  And even then I'm starting to float down a river of classification and classified  information, but basically I was.  Your paycheck is from BAE.  Yes.  Is there, are there other people who aren't necessarily BAE government people  that you are interacting with at any?  100%.  And there's other agencies outside of the IC that I'm interacting with.  There are other contractors I'm interacting with because it's a way to.  Redacted.  Here's my question.  Is your employer and the secret employer know what you know?  They know what you did.  You've done it well, even though you feel guilty about it.  Why wouldn't they take care of you and not want you to spill beans or go off the deep end?  So why wouldn't they do that?  All right.  Now you're asking me my opinion and this is my opinion to be clear.  I think at the time that all of this was happening and considering with what the VA was doing to me,  what was on my official record, it is my opinion that it would have been very easy to discredit me  publicly by saying.  This individual is delusional.  Look at all his medical records.  He's a disgruntled employee, a liar, all of that.  And then the problem became though, especially when I came to Aero and spilled the beans.  And then people found out I kept police reports and voicemails that are on my phone.  You guys have heard that people found out very quickly that it was going to be very easy to discredit me when I was.  Still under the belief that if I said anything, they were to call me a Looney Tune.  And then they found out how much I knew what I could prove and what I had.  And it quickly became a problem of he is a danger.  Right.  We need to deal with this guy.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Bob Lazar kind of a hundred percent.  And that's the thing that, you know, that, that I noticed a lot is that a lot of what the types of reprisals that you have experienced in your line of work.  Mimic.  The same tactics all the way back to 1989, when George was reporting on Bob Lazar.  It's like just a ways to discredit you and, and put you in.  And look, I I've seen all the evidence that you've provided.  We've looked through it.  I've talked to people that know you really well over these years.  You're a solid individual or wouldn't be sitting here.  So the, the fact that they're setting up the option to be able to discredit is exactly what, why they probably chose Bob.  Compared to him.  I mean, he's working at official capacity with clearances and all that stuff, but it's the same tactics.  Yeah.  I mean, it's called a standard operating procedure.  I actually laugh.  I mean, honestly, I was laughing about George's monk right here when confronted.  Uh, one thing about the United States government is they don't really change your SOPs or TTPs.  They think if it works, it's going to work forever.  And this goes back to issues we were talking about, which is the internet changed the game.  AI is going to change it more and too many people have come out.  So these SOPs and TTPs.  I mean, if you need to keep whistleblowers silent, you really got to start adapting.  Unfortunately, I don't want to give people who want to hide the secret or, uh, ammunition, but this is a different ball game this time.  Do you have a sense of how they've made your life miserable as a result of you leaving that job and really setting the table for discrediting you if they need to do it?  I mean, okay, that works.  Um, for example, I witnessed a suicide.  The police showed up, uh, there was an official police report.  I was with other people.  veterans the veterans affairs administration was contacted and the police contacted the va on my  behalf to tell the psychologist there that this happened i went in with another veteran a marine  who deployed afghanistan combat engineer great guy we went into our psychological eval from the  suicide we both witnessed together uh he was treated with due respect asked how he felt  apologized the whole nine uh what they did to me is they accused me of faking a police report  faking being a police officer wrote in my official medical records which have hindered me to this day  it's still ongoing that i am a liar i am prone to delusions i make everything up and that is in my  official medical records you guys have the police report number you guys have the voicemail i played  it for you both that was the first thing the va did to me uh i was put into a  hypnosis biofeedback program where once a week i had to go to the va and i would be hooked up to a  polygraph machine and they would flash images of an afghan child with a gun to a butterfly  and i'm hooked up to this polygraph machine and i have to count backwards from 100 by 7  while they're flashing images and if i got the number wrong like 193 86 and i said 77  they'd start screaming at me honking an air horn and i'd have to restart  um i had to pull my 401k because i didn't have a clearance i couldn't get a job i almost lost my  house i had to fight bae and the agencies i work for for unemployment which was 270 dollars a week  in northern virginia which if you know anything about northern virginia is the richest part of  america it is not feasible to even get groceries off of that basically i lost everything but my  house and at one point in time because i was concerned i was going to go to the hospital and i  was going to lose my house because i am a 10 disabled vet the va is denying i ever did the  jobs i did denying i have the issues i have the whole nine i was genuinely concerned i was going  to lose my house and i began to honestly consider and look at non-violent offenses in order to have  three hots in a cot because i was very quickly approaching the point in time where i would  probably be a homeless disabled vet sounds like they wanted you to kill yourself that is 100  what they did in fact there was a doctor who filed  a complaint within the ig at the va on my behalf because they were in his opinion trying to get me  to kill myself at one point in time they put me on a prescription medication for ptsd and depression  which i wasn't allowed to collect by the way the va still denied i had ptsd or depression but they  put me on the medicine for it and i woke up in the middle of the night while on this medication  and the best way i can describe it is you know you need to relieve yourself to go to the bathroom  where you're thirsty it's a physical response i woke up in the middle of the night and  the physical response in my brain was commit suicide i freaked out rightfully so something  i will never do is commit suicide or a roman catholic it is against my religion to do so  i contacted the va i went to the va on the police's again all documented and the va  psychologist who was a cia employee of all things or was was you know uh said oh this is common you  need to increase your dose the psychiatrist uh you have his name yeah yeah  he was made aware he filed a complaint on my behalf he found out there was a team dedicated  to me at the va and he filed a complaint against that team he was told that he is nothing's going  to change that i answer them and he told me verbatim he said dylan you need to do everything  in your power to live through this what they are doing to you is wrong do not trust any of these  doctors there is something very wrong with what is being done to you and keep in mind this whole  time this is happening i'm over at this at bae um  and he resigned in protest he resigned because of what they were doing to dylan and let's just  back up this is some stranger things bullshit to take somebody like dylan through i think it was  stanford research right to take somebody through like dylan and say in stanford it was what penn  state and you know used aerophones and these violent images and i mean alfred mcdowell it is  yeah it's like clockwork orange not to make light of it but like you know i've talked to a bunch of  people about this  um and there's it's some sort of psychological program that has really deep ties within the cia  mk ultra it's it's like a continuation of that is what i understand that so there's something  else going on that that dylan is searching for answers and i get that with what with what he's  experienced it appears to be connected to the uap thing i mean i i'm almost certain it is because  this goes back to when i was discharged from the air force after i'll process with the v in the air  force the dod mandated i go to the knee and i'm like oh my god i'm going to die i'm going to die  i'm not innate i never work with them i i train navy guys but i'm not navy i never work for the  navy other than special ops which is under redacted i had out process with the navy when i went down  out process with the navy in 2013 i go down there and the navy doctor is asking me about esp god  remote viewing aliens the whole nine you walk in on that day i walk in and during my out process  for my medical discharge you're like how's your back uh oh we're sorry about your dental thing  you know we have some psychological questions to ask you do you believe in god do you believe in  esp and this is that's the first time george the second time i had the same thing happen to me when  i was filing for ptsd with the va the va doctors and the clinician that did it the psychiatrist who  did my va eval started asking me oh do you believe in god do you believe in esp remote viewing has  this ever happened to you do you have prophetic dreams did you ask him why are you asking me this  i i did and they're like oh well this is just standard eval  and and all of this stuff and this is what's so troubling is because i'm doing this and it leads  us all the way to now and why i'm here on camera with you is i did everything by the book for our  country i put my faith in bureaucrats and companies in our nation and what i got for it was  losing everything no job no clearance my master's degree gone my reputation in the toilet i don't  put a bullseye on my back with arrow the ig  i tell congress let's get it straight congress knows like everybody can play the games and i'm  sorry to the congressional staff and members that are here listening to this y'all know well in fact  it's people within government that vouched for the authenticity of your character and experiences  that have reached out to me and george and you know they're a little nervous of us like covering  you know what it is that you have to talk about although there's a big thing  you can't talk about and i respect that i understand  as a patriot you know and the fact that you've testified to to to that stuff that you can't talk  about it but i i guess my question is i mean do you think just right on the nose man do you think  that you've been part of some like current day mk ultra type experimentation on you based on  or related to uap or not and is it punishment for what you've seen or is it part of the whole  process you were meant to what i will say is this and this can be i hope not but i suspect so could  just through at what point you start seeking out other people who've been through the same thing or  and your attempts to share information with agencies that are supposedly honestly investigating  this that's a great question sir and i love it so i get out um all this weird stuff is happening to  me clearance gone pull my 401k fight for unemployment the whole nine in october or  november of 2018 i get a phone call from somebody out of centcom working for khaki and he says  hey my name is insert name i heard what happened to you what they did to you was wrong i'm going to  send you paperwork and get your clearance fixed immediately you have to promise me though that  when you get your clearance fixed you're gonna go work back for the government and a point in time  will come where you're gonna have to go and make some decisions that was a conversation i had i was  like yeah sure sounds great man whatever you say make some decisions what what has he just said  go back to the government uh do what you've been doing and do what you've been doing and do what you've  been doing be a stand-up guy and you know life is going to take you interesting places does that  sound like come back in shut the hell up or what sounds like it but i don't know at this point i'm  just trying to keep a roof over my head so you're thinking yeah i said yeah he sends me a contract  to deploy to afghanistan to do security for forty thousand dollars a year he says don't worry about  the pay don't worry about the job just sign the contract sounds great my man sign the contract  send it back three months later in december  he calls me up he's like hey your clearance is good to go everything's fine sorry you can't  deploy to afghanistan good luck buddy so he was doing that just to get your clearance reinstated  that was a 100 uh somebody just trying to take care of you on the inside  so from there i got hired back to jido uh the job i had taken teaching and training counter uas  ops uh was gone they hire me to go do all source and target dev so basically you know you take  pictures and you have strings going around and you have strings going around and you have strings  going everywhere companies and names and locations that was me i was doing all that for  ops get in there and this is 2019 and i am keeping my head down trying to get my finances in order  keep my head down but i'm still paying attention i'm paying attention to the chat coming through  work i'm paying attention reporting i can read i'm paying attention to you guys i'm paying  attention to what's on public media lose names out there a tip all sap i'm looking at everybody  like i don't trust anyone um and then all of a sudden 2022 rolls around and this is where  everything kicks off again for me 2022 rolls around and uh the task force becomes known to  me at least and i'm paying attention to our space in that forum and i'm kind of participating in the  forum and i'm pulling data from the forum that i know is 100 true and people from the legacy  program and i'm kind of participating in the forum and i'm pulling data from the forum and i'm  putting in little pieces myself in there to put people on the right track under your name under my  name yep and i'm paying attention to the chat rooms and that'll target you immediately we know  that that our space was infiltrated yeah so and it's the same with chat surfer i'm in chat surfer  and here's the story it's a hell of a story too 2022 rolls around in the fall of 2022 somebody  who was interviewed by the task force and claimed to be a whistleblower has this big shin dig and  people are going to be like oh my god i'm going to be like oh my god i'm going to be like oh my god  talking about going and people are reaching out to me i'm like i'm not going anywhere near that  that is cia ci and cia central you guys are crazy doing it and you know people had known my  background knew i had my master's i was trying to shot my resume get a better job but uh i don't go  to it and a couple people start bashing the ufo community and i post a response in there and i  say look my man you really think marco rubio who wants to be president is going to put his name  the same way i'm going to put his name the same way i'm going to put his name the same way i'm  something unless he knows there's truth there and immediately i start getting private messages  from people high ranking people overseas like special ops officers like point on my man like  you know exactly what's up and we form this small little group and we're sending information to each  other that's allowed legally to be shared and uh a group pops up and the same individual that had  this get together and makes a declaration that  the people who worked in the legacy program their lives were in danger and you know my background you  know i did for a living you know what was done to me you know my feelings about all of this and for  the next hour after he made that declaration I checked in with people who said they were part of  the task force and they said we do believe that is accurate and I berated the individual who made  that statement for over an hour and said do not lie to me about this I know you're lying about  other things I  because I knew I was going to have to come forward as a whistleblower.  And no offense to Arrow, I think Arrow is doing the job they are told to do.  And I understand that you put 18, 20 years in the government,  you want your pension, you have a good house, you have kids,  and you know how dangerous the outside is,  but they're not doing the job the American Constitution demands of them.  Would you say there are differences between the UAP task force and Arrow?  I mean, that the UAP task force had different motivations.  In my limited interaction with the task force since it's been disbanded, yes.  In my limited, and again, I don't want to bash Arrow.  I think there's a lot of great people at Arrow.  I think they are doing what is best for them in their careers,  not what's best for this subject and humanity and the Constitution.  Is it a mistake for you to have gone on to that space and engaged with people  you don't exactly know who they are?  You know that some of them are full of shit.  I won't know until this is all over.  Because of the decisions I made after everything I had been through  and looking out for people who were interested in this  while also keeping my eye on it to see where this was going,  if I help keep people safe, or if three years from now  they actually do a real disclosure, then yeah, it was a good decision.  This space thing that we're talking about, is there any security protection for it?  Is it in any way on a platform that's not available to the general public?  Yeah, you have to have the proper clearances.  So you're engaging?  You're engaging with other whistleblowers, insiders that you think are?  I'm sure there were other insiders and whistleblowers  because there are things that I came across that I had made comments about  and the moment that I pointed it out, those people disappeared  and that information was pulled.  You know that some of the information is right,  some of it not so dependable or reliable.  You're not spilling any beans there.  You kind of give people a nudge in the right direction or something.  Yeah, I mean, mainly what I stuck to was,  I stuck to what I experienced at Langley.  Oh, you did tell all this.  I talked about Langley, and then I talked about a little bit about  odd things that had happened in my life.  And it was in part because I was very concerned that people  were being given false information purposefully,  and I was also very concerned that people who were interested in this subject  and had experiences of their own,  were not being given false information.  They're about to put themselves in grave danger.  Like, grave danger.  Anyway, his name was discussed on a UFO UAP small-time podcast,  and that individual you talk about threw a shit fit.  Excuse my language.  And they started making accusations that were not true.  Friends of mine were given documents to sign  to try and have that individual who was on that podcast,  job revoked, insider threat, the whole nonsense.  You know, I got tangled up in it because there were things  that I was pointing out that were intelligence products  that were not real.  And somehow those intelligence products were leaked onto Twitter,  and I had just dropped a message like,  anybody find this weird that this product that just came out today  is being discussed by debunkers two days prior?  All of a sudden, that individual started me.  How dare you?  Don't make those accusations.  And I'm like, I work for this agency.  I know what the product is.  There's no way you're making that claim,  and there's no way what their assessment is is valid.  It's insane.  Long story short, everything got kaput because of,  I don't know the true reason why.  I know that they had a hand in it.  Somebody took control of that discussion group.  Oh, yeah.  Who seemed to be motives that might be counterintelligence kind of a thing?  Oh, I'm sure.  And I can.  I'm positive of this as well.  There are people in there that are so anti-UFO UAP  that come from very interesting agencies and very interesting locations  and the comments that they put in that chat room  somehow are reflected by people on Twitter right now,  like verbatim, like I go into work and I see a statement  and I come out of work and on Twitter is same statement,  just saying a little odd.  Okay, so there's a direct mirror of on inside the intelligence community  in a classified realm.  And those statements are then echoed on to X.  Oh, yeah.  Within the same day, 24, 48 hours.  But whatever they're claiming up in there, they're a little hard to influence  the public debate on.  Oh, yeah.  So there is a direct line of intelligence community interaction on acts  and public perception and public perception.  Whether or not those people are paid.  I can.  Doesn't matter because there's a lot of motivation.  100%.  That's what I'm saying.  But I know that that is being done.  I've seen it a bunch more lately.  So you engage with this group.  You see some problems that have developed.  What's the next step for you?  The decision to share it with official agencies?  Yeah, here we go.  So that same individual, the gentleman,  he makes a claim that people's lives are in danger.  I have been through hell and back.  I am trying to keep my head above water.  There are friends of mine that are engaging with this individual,  and I'm trying to warn them politely, hey, just be aware this isn't exactly true.  And people are now slowly, people who are very intelligent,  smart people are very quickly realizing that I know what I'm talking about.  And that individual makes a statement that people's lives are in danger.  At the same time that statement is made,  an individual that I knew that was in the legacy program  lost their job for proprietary information sharing.  I did not want to go to Arrow first because I know that this is all true.  I know there is a program.  I know there are entities.  I know it.  I am.  I have experienced it.  It is what it is.  And I contact that individual, berate them for an hour.  And then finally I say, all right, I have to take your word for it.  I can't let anybody die.  That was my promise to the people I knew in the legacy program.  If they died, that I would come forward.  I don't want them to die.  So I come forward and I go to Congress.  First thing I do is I call I get connected to Senate staffers  and they are asking me questions and I tell them I have witnessed a triangle  at Langley Air Force Base,  but I have direct in-depth knowledge of a hell of a lot more.  And I am not comfortable sharing that over the phone.  And as long as I am legally allowed to come to you,  I will be there as soon as you will let me.  And I go into me with staffers.  We know who you testified to.  And it's not, you know, it's somebody who's high,  has a high responsibility when it comes to this subject,  as far as intake and protecting whistleblowers.  And when that person was in position, which they're not any,  any more, they did a great job.  They did.  I wish nothing but the best for them.  And I love those people, all of them.  It upsets me.  And I had suspicions because I, again, have been through what I've been through  and I can kind of recognize when people are being toyed with that  towards the tail end, they were definitely being played with.  And that was my concern.  And I think they recognized I knew when they tried to alleviate it on me.  But I wish nothing but the best for them.  You told them pretty much everything.  Or did you hold some of it back?  I held a lot back.  I had gone in, they had scheduled my meeting.  There were four of them in the room.  You gave them program names, locations, the nature of the propulsion systems, everything.  I gave them my direct knowledge of the triangle,  my direct knowledge of that entire event, and then guaranteed factual,  no argument about it, a legacy program in detail  with technology integration, how it works, where it's at, the whole kit and caboodle.  So they know.  What's the reaction?  How do they react?  Seriously, or are they?  Well, my two favorite moments is the one gentleman that we know  was absolutely excited.  And he was very much like, it's like, okay, let me hear more.  Let me hear more.  There's another one that is public now who I don't think he really wanted  to believe.  It and then made some comments here and there.  And then towards the tail end, I had dropped two magic words.  And when those two magic words dropped, I will never forget it.  As soon as those two words dropped, that individual's mouth hit the floor.  He threw his hands in his hair, looked at me, literally looked down at the paper  he was writing notes on and exasperated an agency name  and was just like staring off into space like, what the hell am I supposed to do now?  Was it a program name?  Yes.  Two word program name.  Yeah.  Something you should not know.  Something you should not know.  Probably.  I mean, at this point, it is what it is.  But that they they say the reaction they did 100%.  And this goes back to Arrow because after that, I had to go to Arrow.  But the questions they were asking me, they knew enough.  So like when you ask questions, if you ask certain questions  in a certain order, you as the person being asked can figure out,  you know, information already.  So during that questioning, the questions they were.  Asking in the things they were saying, I actually because I didn't want them to think they were  leading me on, I would actually tell them, I will answer that in a moment.  Please do not ask that yet because you could technically be leading me like I'm doing that  while I'm briefing Senate staff.  And then I go over to House and I expose a hell of a lot more in House staff, which was  not UFO related, but serious crimes.  I go to Senate.  I drop the information on them.  They, in my impression, quickly realize I know a heck of a lot of.  Very, very, very important information.  And at that point, there was a conversation that I overheard where they were talking about  whether or not to bring me to House side due to safety concerns.  That was literally it.  And they were worried for you.  They were.  Yes.  They had asked me, did I feel in danger?  And I did not want to tell them about everything else I'm telling you now because it sounds  so insane.  I don't want to come across as insane, but it's all true.  Is this in a skiff?  It was.  It was in a skiff.  No.  That's all my understanding.  No recordings.  Did they say, Hey, we're going to have you come back.  They're talking about nobody to go see the house.  They brought me in.  They said, did you go to Arrow?  I said, I have no way to contact Arrow and I want to talk with you guys first before  I go to Arrow because I have concerns with Arrow knowing that they are not representing  this issue fully.  So I go through the Senate staff.  They have the conversation about bringing me to House.  There is a gentleman in the House that they decided to bring me to who.  What I was informed of was he didn't really necessarily believe.  In all this, but he took safety seriously.  I was brought to the house side where I briefed a house staffer.  And then we got into a heck of a lot of other non UFO things that are serious crimes that  I was witness to people that American citizens would be furious if they found out we're in  positions they were in corruption, corruption, sexual harassment, people get in taxpayer  funds that should have been dishonorably thrown out of the military, the whole nine.  And I told them.  I told that individual and another who was present in the room that day about other things  that are semi related to this.  And I told the individuals, I said, check all of it.  I guarantee it's all true.  And three weeks later, I get a phone call and they said, we want you to go to Arrow  as soon as possible.  Here's their email address.  And I said, verbatim, is it what the country needs?  Yes.  Do I go into everything and am I protected?  Yes.  And I said, all right, let's do it.  So I testified to Senate and House staff members.  I was told I shouldn't use testify.  I informed Senate and House staffers on March 3rd.  I went to Arrow either March 27th or March 28th of 2023.  And I went to Arrow and went through that whole process with them.  The gentleman I met with, one was a DOD officer, the other was an FBI agent.  They were pleasant.  I think they were quite shocked of the information I gave them and things that were currently  happening and how I could tie it to legacy programs and certain technologies and capabilities.  But due to my severe concern for the protection of people, I did not want to disclose certain  information and they wanted that information.  I told them I wouldn't do it.  Because I believed then that if that information was shared with Arrow, those individuals would  be targeted.  And then that became its whole issue later on when I got my classified Arrow MFR.  MFR.  Memorandum for Record.  So it is what Arrow is supposed to give to Arrow witnesses, usually unclassified.  They classified mine and sent it to my government email address where I had to print it off  in front of the entire office.  I had to edit it first because there were mistakes in it, which I was told I needed  to correct those mistakes and those mistakes, I was concerned, would reveal information  I did not want to share.  So I had to make the corrections.  My Arrow MFR clearly was targeting a specific staffer.  I made a note to make sure that they were misrepresenting the staffer's intention and  information that was discussed.  Basically, this MFR was a fishing expedition.  By Arrow, to try to pin something on somebody that he testified to, that we know, to try  to make it look like they were doing something untoward, right?  So, yeah, they had an agenda for listening to your testimony.  It wasn't really about UFOs, UAP, it was to, what can we use this for?  Probably both.  You know, this is my opinion.  I think that the two gentlemen I testified to are great Americans.  I think they actually care.  I think that this came from higher up.  I think I had conversations with the people.  I think they actually care.  At least one of them that I testified to, I think, is a good person who understands a  hell of a lot more.  And I think that what they did to me came from on high.  So they were listening to your story and they were, God damn, they were affected by what  you're telling them.  Oh, yeah, they were.  And I was able to draw connections for them that clearly they had no idea that that was  happening.  Is this under oath?  Or you had to sign something?  I told them I did have to sign my MFR.  Yes.  So I did sign that.  And that information was loosely in there.  But technically, I was not under oath, again, something that these attorneys that are in  this program made sure to tell me that that was not under oath.  But I did sign an MFR, legally binding.  And subsequently, have you learned there are limitations on what you told them?  Is there limits on who else you can tell the same stuff to or anything like that?  I have no idea.  So no idea.  And we're getting right into the IG.  Okay.  So go to Arrow.  End of March, give them most of the information what they need to know to know that this is  very real.  This is happening that people are being affected that there are issues.  And about that summer, and I remember the day it was the day that Donald Trump got indicted  in Georgia, the Gang of Eight was called into an emergency meeting.  And the only reason why I remember and I wish I knew the date, but that day is the day that  I made all the edits printed off my MFR, signed it, and went in front of my entire office,  rescan it back into my machine and emailed it back to Arrow.  And that morning, the Gang of Eight was called into an emergency meeting about three hours  after I sent it back to Arrow.  And that was the day Donald Trump was indicted.  Not saying they're correlated.  I just know it was that day, right.  So from there, I'm like, Alright, well, they have my info.  Let's see what happens.  And, you know, I'm not sure.  But, you know, during this time, I've been asked once or twice by people of importance  whether or not I would testify to Congress under oath on this.  And I said, without hesitation, yes, like 100%, yes.  You testified to the operational UAP that you had direct close proximity to as well  as the other aspect of what you came to understand about the legacy program, the reverse engineering,  where it's housed, the power source, what it looks like.  Including redacted.  I would testify to anything and everything of importance to our congressional to Congress  to the legislative branch.  I said if they should have oversight 100% and having been the victim of crimes and having  been through this whole thing and being a believer in the Constitution, that this is  all criminal.  In my opinion, they say they want whistleblowers.  They say they want people who haven't come public yet for this next hearing.  That's what they've said.  I know.  This is probably when or this comes out will be after that, but that's what they  said they want.  You have been nominated to Congress.  I have.  And you had additional conversations with them, with staff, regarding the hearing  that's coming.  He did all pre-vetting.  He went through the whole process.  I'm just curious why immediately, if you want whistleblowers to talk, this is their chance.  Dylan would be a great chance, just like Matthew Brown, who you know and are friends with.  It's nice to hear about Immaculate Constellation and have that dialogue.  It's a document put on congressional record, but it's different than if they get to hear  from him.  He'd be my first pick with you for a hearing if I wanted real whistleblowers.  I appreciate it.  I tend to agree if you're not going to bring home or bring out legacy guys, but knowing  what they did to me for being an experiencer and having indirect exposure, I can only imagine  what they're going through.  Maybe there's a roadblock.  Maybe what you have to say is something that they don't want out, even with the task force.  Well, I tend to agree.  And we haven't even got to the ICIG.  You should tell us about ICIG.  Tell me about that.  All right.  So that summer, I send off my Arrow MFR.  I've been asked if I would testify under oath.  I say yes.  And all of a sudden, I hear there's going to be a UFO hearing.  I have no idea who's going to be there.  And all of a sudden, Dave Grush is on my computer screen at work, and I'm like, oh, wow, okay.  And Dave is saying things like administrative terrorism and a certain agency and certain  things.  And I am laughing to myself in the office.  I'm like, that's me.  Like, I've been there, done that, know that story, know this.  And Dave says he has 40 witnesses.  And Dave says he filed the IG complaint.  And I'm like, all right, let's go.  Dave did it.  Maybe they're going to actually do it.  Maybe you're going to call all of us in here and do a full legislative hearing, House and  Senate, both chambers.  Let's hammer this out, like 1970s CIA style.  We're reeling you guys back in.  Do you assume you're one of the four?  40 witnesses he's talking about?  At that time, I did.  But I came to find out I wasn't.  Yeah, but you never testified to David Grush prior to that.  100%.  You did not.  I did not.  Right.  So you would not be one of those four.  And that goes as to why I went to the IG.  Okay.  So I thought so because I had been through, at that point, the only process I knew, which  was talk to Congress, talk to Arrow.  I didn't know there was this whole side.  Again, I'm like hiding out in my little bunker at work.  Like I am staying away from all this.  And I only peep my head out to like, let people know.  You should probably pay attention to this, but also you are getting into some really  dangerous territory.  So I get a phone call after Dave testifies and they notify me, hey, Dylan, we want you  to go to the IG.  And I said, all right, what about, they're like, you know, this stuff.  They, me, who?  Congress?  A staffer and Dave and an attorney that you guys are aware of.  I don't know if I can say their name, but an attorney you guys are aware of.  I think just, yeah, that's good.  All right.  Um, and they're like, go to the IG.  And I said, am I safe?  Is it what the country needs?  Yes.  Yes.  I said, all right, let's make it happen.  And I go to the IG.  Um, that was in, I want to say September, October, I actually have the date for you  guys if you need it.  Um, but I went there in 2023, late summer, early fall of 2023.  And I go through the IG process and to be honest with you out of everything, I really  feel like the IG process.  Was the worst.  I think the people at Arrow genuinely cared, but my opinion going through the IG and the  questions they asked me, the things that were said to me made me feel like that was a fishing  expedition.  And the only thing they cared about was finding out how much I actually knew.  Wow.  That is highly disappointing.  It was very disappointing being in that room with the conversation and statements that  were being made to me.  Like when somebody's at redacted.  Exactly.  Asking you a question in the IG, uh, government employee cuts them off and says, you don't  ask him that question and then looks at me and tells me you don't answer that question.  Yeah.  Whenever you, when they ask you, what do you want out of this?  And verbatim direct quote on film, by all means go get the, uh, recording.  Cause they said they recorded it, but, uh, they said, what do you want out of this?  And I said, I want to look Congress in the eyes, tell them the truth under oath.  So when I die, I can answer for this and know I did my job.  Yeah.  And the response was, as far as we're concerned, you already did that and you're not doing it  again.  So is this the actual inspector general or ICIG?  Yes.  I have his card on my house.  You went through the whole thing.  I went through the whole thing.  Who else is there?  Redacted.  So ICIG assistant director, director redacted attorney on my right.  So you try to do this right.  You go to ICIG and you literally feel like that they are just trying to pump you to figure  out how much, you know, how dangerous you are to the legacy program.  In my opinion, looking back on this, yes, because the way they ask questions, the statements  they made to each other, the statements they made to me, 100% seemed like they wanted to  find out how much I knew.  And at the end of this, which you're aware of the conversation I had with the attorney,  it was, you are credible, not urgent, go disappear in the winds, leave this all behind, shut  up.  Do not do anything.  You're in tie.  Everything you said, which goes back to what we talked, I mean, I talked about my childhood  in there.  I was told everything I talked about in that room now is up for executive review.  And I brought up to the attorney, I talked about my childhood.  Is that now up for it?  I talked about unclassified information readily available on the internet.  And they said, Dylan, every single thing you talked about is now subject to executive review.  Do not go outside of those bounds your whole life.  Pretty damn much.  It's like a great way to lock somebody down.  If you want to kind of intake their whole whistleblower story.  What they know.  And then say, now that you've testified to ICIG, you have to walk away.  Well, you realize they say that and that this has been in essence, a waste of time  that you walked into sort of a trap.  I mean, I can imagine how depressing it would be.  Depressing.  It pissed me off because I was already blacklisted from the IC and I told the attorney that.  I told the IG that.  Like I already know that there are things that are in place for me getting jobs, working  in this field that years back are in play.  And it's happened to me since I got into the IG, which goes back to retaliation.  Like technically I'm still being retaliated against.  Inspector General's office is there to hear about wrongdoing and things that shouldn't  be happening in the agencies that it oversees.  You would think, but this is now me being blackpilled and there's a joke amongst all  the military guys, which is the JAG isn't for you.  The JAG is for the DOD.  The IG isn't for us.  The IG is for the government.  And that's the way I feel now.  Did you share this with the attorney who had been advising you about seeing these guys?  Who we're not saying who it is, but who I think with the client, I think you're not  supposed to do that.  It's not like a big secret.  I'm just trying to be respectful.  I made it aware to them that the statement that he had made to me was a rave concern.  It made no sense.  And I had asked, how do I do doctor?  Because I do not trust this process at all anymore.  And basically from that point, I was completely shut out for over a year, a year and a half.  I think lawyers are trying to protect their clients.  You know, I don't think it's nefarious.  I think that they're just trying to do or guide their client in what's best for their  wellbeing.  Yeah.  Well, especially somebody who has been around and knows, knows what could happen.  This stuff.  Yeah.  That's unfortunate.  I don't disagree.  Um.  So, you know, I go back to work.  I knew I was going to lose my job in the summer of 2024.  And I started to ask questions.  How do I do doctor?  Because I'm losing my job.  I know I'm losing my job.  I know I'm going to have a pain trying to get a new job in the government.  Nobody would really help me.  And I'm trying to figure it out.  I'm asking questions.  I'm asking attorneys in this field.  How do I file for doctor?  I want somebody's name next to it.  What do I need to do?  No help.  You see what's on social media, uh, the UFO world and their experts who are very, very  brave on X and giving advice to people like you just go forward, tell what you, you know,  they wouldn't dare prosecute you or mess with you.  I mean, they don't have to prosecute you to mess with you.  There's all kinds of things that have happened to you, to Grush, to others, um, you know,  uh, yeah.  Well, I mean, the federal government has 300,000 attorneys on payroll and that's just bureaucrats.  That's not private contracts.  They're not lawyers.  Everything that's said and done is reviewed by attorneys.  Everything that's brought forward publicly is reviewed by attorneys.  But also, you know, the average American, I believe one of the stats I had heard was  commits two or three felonies a day.  I mean, they can nab you.  I mean, honestly, they can nab you for whatever.  And this goes back to even me and my job, which I am so overly paranoid of giving them  even an inch like, oh, you made a security violation.  Bye bye Dylan.  Oh, you accidentally sold a stuffed animal for $5 at a garage sale.  Tired.  Tax fraud.  Like I don't, to be honest with you, I don't even own stock.  I will not buy stock in any company that I know has this technology because I don't want  them to come after me for insider trading.  Like that's how seriously, that's how paranoid I am with them.  So well, because you felt the boot on your neck, do all the, the experiences you've had  after having this ex these exposures 100% and then it gets into two is like all these  people saying, oh, come forward.  You'll be a hero.  There's money.  There's book deals.  And it's like, you guys have no idea.  Most of us are struggling to get by right now.  One guy's lost a house.  Another one's not going to make rent next month.  I pulled my 401k to keep a roof over my head.  I had to save up money for two years whenever I began this process because I had a feeling  which turned out to be right.  I'm going to be out and, and here we are where, oh, Congress bring whistleblowers forward.  Oh, we're going to drain the swamp deep state.  Oh, we're going to do X, Y, Z.  Yeah.  We still have literal laws in place with the SEC over what every single whistleblower  has done.  We qualify for it.  It's not our problem.  The DOJ doesn't want to prosecute that's on them.  We met our obligation and if they're not going to do it, what else are we supposed to do?  Right?  There's no safety net.  You guys throw away your professional careers, but you're also being pressured in a lot of  ways to get out, but you basically throw that away to be able to do what you feel is the  right thing.  Same with, with Matthew Brown.  Same with you.  Same with a bunch of unnamed people publicly who have been through some of this process.  And I guess it's important for our audience to know there really is no safety net.  It's like you have to, you're out on your own.  Everybody's offering you these whistleblower protections.  What good are they?  David Grush had whistleblower protections through the ICIG and still yet they were unable.  And I saw the pressures on him.  I saw when he was testifying that there was an intelligence agency, if he said the one  wrong word.  Yup.  It just slipped up just a little bit in his language.  That's why Chuck McCullough was behind him during that, that they were ready to prosecute  internally.  No one will ever hear about this publicly, but I know it as a fact, I saw it happen that  they were trying to do that.  So you think about all these things and the pressure's really on, like what is the benefit  for people to come forward?  There really isn't a benefit, but the question is why do you do it still?  Well, a couple of things, uh, you are absolutely correct.  And this goes back to, they will nitpick every single thing if, and that is why I'm, I've  been so overly cautious.  And at this point, which we'll get into, I'm sure this is coming, but for example, I go  in, I lose my job in the summer of 2024, September 30th, new fiscal year, October 1st.  And I go in for a polygraph for a certain agency and it's a normal CI polygraph and  it happens to be redacted and it's a CI poly.  It's not a full scope.  This is, do you talk to Russia?  Are you selling secrets?  I don't even have a passport.  I've been too poor to even take a vacation.  I mean, I'm here.  And this has been the first vacation.  I've had in 12 years to see us.  Oh, we're sorry.  I mean, it could have been something better, but the irony is, is that, oh, well, we're  going to protect whistleblowers.  We're here for retaliation.  We're here for X, Y, Z.  Well, I go into a CI polygraph and the point of a polygraph is to tell the truth and my  polygraph I'm asked, what don't you want to talk about?  And I make it clear.  I don't want to talk about my IG complaint.  And obviously you're being filmed on a polygraph and this person on the computer and they're  typing back and forth.  And I dropped that.  I have an IG complaint in.  You're like, what?  It's like, yeah.  You're like, what's the status?  I was like, I have no idea.  I don't know anything.  I'm basically out here in the dark for almost a year now.  He gets on his computer and he's like, I'll be back.  He comes back in and he laughs and he says the name of the IG.  And then he goes, what was the nature of your complaint?  What are the details?  And I was like, you can't ask me that.  I was like, you don't have need to know.  What are you doing?  Right.  And my point is, is, is that retaliation because I didn't pass the polygraph.  I didn't fail, but I'm not a, I'm not a counterintelligence.  Risk.  So what?  Right.  The retaliation comes in all these myriad of forms.  If you want to see it like that, they should not be asking you that question.  I see.  IG complaint is supposed to be confidential and yeah, that's, um, and, and this goes right  back to criminality and playing a game and knowing what you can get away with and how  to say things to get away with it.  That's all it is.  You're pretty sure that's their surveillance, um, phones tap, things of that sort.  They're watching your computer.  Um.  Yeah.  We saw it.  We saw it.  The three of us personally experienced that on you, somebody following you to be honest  with you, George, in my opinion, I, I have just assumed, and I'm pretty damn sure I'm  right on this, that that was mainly for you guys because I've been operating at a point  to where it's like pretty much try me.  I don't really have much to lose.  They definitely wanted it to be known that it was not a private meeting between all of  us.  I had never experienced it to that extent.  Before, but the two times, you know, first time I ever met with Dylan, um, a similar  experience, something happened, followed, uh, kind of Dylan after that hard to prove  that shit, but I'm glad the three of us got to see it that one time.  Yeah.  That's annoying.  Were there points in the last few years that you were really encouraged?  Man, at last something's happening.  New York times story, December, 2017.  There's this program called a tip, which I'm sure you hadn't heard about and whether it's  a program or not.  Yeah.  And then all SAP pops up in 2018 and we know about these documents and investigations and  UAP task force gets created even before Congress officially did it, it, you could, you could  be encouraged.  That sounds like it's heading in the right direction.  And then it seems like all of those get swatted down.  I had reservations through all of it.  For me personally, Dave testifying under oath.  And then me going to the IG were the only two moments that I have faith that this was  on the right track.  Yeah.  That has been a complete joke.  Are you concerned about your life now or it's out?  I mean, things that you have shared, even though it's in confidence, it's, it's probably  known.  I, I thought, well, I think the powers that be have known that I made certain assurances  seven years ago in 2018, when I had all those events take place, losing my job, a car accident,  uh, unemployment, the VA issues.  I, they've been, they've been paying attention for a while.  And I made sure even back then that certain assurances were in place.  I think at this point, um, it's, it's depressing.  I mean, you know, I told you're aware I married my wife one month before I became a whistleblower.  My entire marriage has been nothing but this nonsense.  Is she okay?  Is she okay with this?  I doubt.  No.  I mean, she, she knows it's true.  She knows that this has been my entire government career.  She knows what agencies have done to me.  She knows what I've been through.  I mean, it's a joke with her and I, where I have a master's degree, 15 years of experience.  She's a very intelligent woman, but she does not meet those qualifications.  And she was making something like $40,000 more a year than I was.  And it's like, you get to a point to where it's like going full circle, you have nothing  left to lose.  Um, this may be too personal, but did she ever say, just walk away from this shit, just  walk away?  Well, I think that's why I'm here now is I have done everything I possibly can and people  that we know had told me, Dylan, walk away from it.  And I have done everything in my power to try, except for this.  So now this is it.  So this is the, the kind of, so I was going to ask you, like, this is the coup de gras.  It's like, um, if you don't testify, it's a very bizarre choice that they would have  made.  But, um, if you don't, then, then why are we doing this?  Like, what do you hope, you know, to get out of this?  Uh, I don't mean to sound like the ICIG here, but what do you hope to get out of it?  But I mean, my, my point is just that it doesn't do anybody any favors.  We know that from Matthew Brown, like he threw down, he did his best.  It didn't change his life.  So why, why testify like this to the American public, to George and to me, we've been talking  privately for so long.  Why now?  Why go public?  Because I think unless you have a dramatic change in the approach of disclosure, if our  government is not going to help do it for our own nation, then you need to bring in  different tools and assets.  And I'm coming this as a victim of crimes.  I'm coming this as somebody who went through the entire process.  I'm coming to this with proof that has been given in closed doors that has been proven  in classified is 100% true.  I'm coming at this now and I'm hoping that veterans, the special forces community, I'm  hoping that other whistleblower attorneys, I'm hoping that average Joe down the street  right now is going to come across as who fought in Iraq.  And I may have even helped to bring him home is going to hear this and say, you don't do  this shit.  Not to Dylan, not to anybody.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You know, you'll never work in a, have a classification again.  You'll never work in, in that whole national security apparatus.  Your whole career has been part of that.  100%.  What are you going to do?  We talked about it last night.  I have no idea.  It is what it is.  Thank God I saved up enough for me to pay my mortgage for a while and then I'll probably  pull my 401k.  And then round two.  No problem.  No retirement again.  No nothing.  And so this is important to you enough that, or you've gotten to that breaking point where  you're like, I know you can't say everything in this interview and I respect that.  That's from a position of patriotism.  You understand there's certain things that you've been exposed to that you can't say  on camera, but we can talk around it a little bit.  So I guess I'm, I'm, what I'm asking is even though you know that you can only go this  far, but you're putting your face out there, it's worth it to you.  To, to not be able to go back into, I mean, I'm making an assumption you're not ever going  to get another government job again, unless Dave or somebody convinces our executive branch  in Congress to actually let us back in and do this the right way.  But it's worth it to you as a whistleblower.  Why?  Because what I have provided is true.  People have been victimized.  People have committed suicide over this because of the legacy UFO thing.  100%.  And more importantly, because I know what I testify to.  It dramatically changes, not just America, but humanity instantly.  And yes, it would take time, but you were talking about economics, migration.  You were talking about travel.  You were talking about mining comments and going to other planets.  You are talking about all of this and wars for resources after my generation just fought  those for damn near 20 years are irrelevant.  Now yeah, you're gonna have to deal with human population expansion.  You're gonna have to deal with other things.  And America and our interests aren't aligned with China's interests and Russia's interests.  But I would rather get ahead of this and have our government be a part of it before it comes  out because then this is going to be chaos.  Okay.  They're like, what comes out?  Like, what are you talking about?  You're talking about disclosure, about UAP, the reality of extraterrestrials or-  I'm talking about what Carl Nell would describe as catastrophic disclosure, where information  that I and other people are not aware of.  I'm talking about the fact that the information that others have brought forward would be released  and believed and known to be true by the general public in such a capacity that our government,  as we understand it, would never recover.  You think people have committed suicide over this?  Oh, 100%.  Not a fake suicide that somebody else did to look like a suicide or an actual suicide?  100%.  Because it'd make them so depressed and feel so alone.  Been there, done that.  Yep.  Not done that.  Not done that.  But been there.  Been there.  Yeah.  Been there with and wanted to.  Yeah.  You had something put in your head or medicine that made you feel that way.  Yeah.  And then you go through and you're, next thing you know, you're 30 some odd years old by  yourself, completely alone.  Everything you work for gone.  You have no retirement.  You're driving a broken down car that's zip tied, picking up you in a park and you're  like, what is my life?  Let's talk about big picture.  What does it mean?  What's this whole story mean?  Because, you know, we've been pretty far up the food chain.  We've been in the food chain with people who've been at it for a long time at high levels,  high security clearances, worked in programs.  They all have guesses, but I don't know a single one of them that knows for sure what  it is.  I will give my opinion.  This is my opinion knowing what I know for a fact, reading and coming into contact of  information that I believe to be true, looking at history and looking at through my perspective.  I think what we are dealing with is very, very, very old.  I think old humans have wrote in those down in religious stories.  I think that it's quite clear that we have been influenced by something else.  I think Aero has been telling the American public the truth.  And you have said this on Weaponized on my behalf, which is Aero's statement.  There is no scientific evidence of extraterrestrials is 100% technically true.  You have to have a control to have scientific proof.  And extraterrestrial is a very exact.  Statement and word with an exact definition, an entity of another planet.  These things, whatever they are, are probably what are referred to as gods or demons or  angels or gin or insert whatever cultural or religious perspective you have.  There are probably also extraterrestrials.  It's it's not a one size fits all.  And considering.  You know.  Humanity has the same stories across many cultures, a flood of crafts that are in the  sky, things that are coming and helping humans.  And I'm at an advantage and a disadvantage knowing certain information that relates very  clearly to things that are around the world that are related to what I know.  I don't think that's by pure coincidence or luck.  I think that the people that are in these programs.  Know the truth to this stuff, and they are looking at it through a lens of this is true.  This is true.  This is true.  This has been here for 8000 years.  This has been here for 4000 years.  Oh, we dug up this at an archaeological dig and hypothetically Egypt.  You know, I mentioned it to you guys last night, like Hatsky and his statement about his faith  and what it means.  means to be human and the impact and nothing to fear. You know, Lakatsky and I are both Catholics,  but I want to be clear in that it's the idea of something greater than us that is here with us  and can influence us. And Pasalka talks about this and you get into consciousness and  all of these things are so correlated and that's a problem with this subject. And that's why one  of the things that I'm a huge proponent of going back to having our government be a part of this  is you have to set a foundation because if you come out and you throw it all out there,  people are going to laugh at you. They're going to call you crazy. They're going to do X, Y, and Z  and you have to set a foundation. And I understand the UFO fanatics are not going to like this  opinion, but this isn't for you. This is for the public. If you want disclosure, the public has to  be a part of it. Hence why I'm here is to hopefully get enough people outside of this subject agitated,  upset, and come and say, no, we're done.  We're done with this. My big picture idea is it's been here for a very long time. It goes by many  names. It's many different things and it has an influence on all of us. You know, we don't really  know what they look like. You know, they're so advanced to us. Gods, sure, could be that level.  They might as well be gods or so far advanced. I don't think they need craft to get here. That's  some kind of a bauble. That's something to get us interested. Hey, look at this. That's why we  maybe have some.  They don't necessarily crash. That appears to be a crash. Something that's always been here. I'm not  entirely positive they have our best interests at heart. Feels like an experiment. They mess with us  on a mass scale, an individual scale, and I'm not sure we're ever going to understand it.  I tend to agree with you. I have many thoughts on this, and this is one of the other things I came  into knowledge of while at my work at DITRA before I lost my job. When Congress passed the  archives legislation, I was like, oh, I'm going to have to do this. I'm going to have to do this.  Where all the agencies were supposed to round up all their documents. I had a wonderful conversation  on my last day, and I'm sure it was just coincidental. The person in charge of collecting  all of the information from DITRA dealing with extraterrestrials, and as he put it,  quote unquote, little green men, happened to sit next to me at my computer terminal  and began pulling all of the documents on my system and the systems in our SCIF.  Interesting fact for you was that he came into the old atomic energy,  documents from way back when, and there was intelligence and information in those that  discuss what you said, which is this has been around with them, and that even back then they  had a similar outlook that this isn't exactly for our benefit. You know, you get into, and again,  I don't want to go too woo. I want to really avoid the woo, but we're going into hypotheticals,  and I try to keep all options open. You're right. They don't, theoretically, they don't have to come  here. I mean, we're working with Neuralink. We're projecting thoughts. We're doing all of this  dreams. You have MKUltra. You have all of this stuff throughout the history, and all of our  intelligence agencies never get rid of that capability. They only get better at it, and they  only get better at hiding it, but if somebody's able to put a thought in your head, George, until  you build this craft, yeah, you're the one who built it, but the thought came from somebody else,  and now you start to get into places that are purely hypothetical, and I'm not even saying I  believe.  them, but it's clear there's something to this. Like thoughts as intruders from a non-human  intelligence having humanity do the bidding that they want without direct knowledge that it's being  asked by someone else, and we're talking about that, right? Theoretically, that's a possibility,  100%. I think on Joe Rogan, he mentions like artificial intelligence influencing humans who  continue to create artificial intelligence and just round and round. Yeah, the metamorphosis  philosophy that Rogan mentioned. Yeah, the metamorphosis philosophy that Rogan mentioned.  Yeah, the metamorphosis philosophy that Rogan mentioned. Yeah, the metamorphosis philosophy that Rogan  talks about, it's really beautiful.  I mean, I keep all options on the table. What I know is these things are real. They exist. We've had  them. Other nations have them. I know that in some way, shape, or form, they appear in a physical  sense. I know that they have an interest in people, and I have a strong belief that they have an  interest in certain families, if you want to call them that. What does it all mean? I don't know,  but what I do know is that  as a democratic republic and a nation that votes for our elected leaders and leaders that are  supposed to provide us information, we're not fulfilling our obligation in our constitution  because we're not voting with information. We are lying to ourselves. What information could  be released without causing a freak out? It's hard to imagine anything that a government would  confirm that wouldn't lead to 5,000 follow-up questions, but let's say a decision is made by  this president or the next president, and the next president is going to be the president of the  next one, assuming we have another one. We're going to release some stuff. We're going to come  clean up to a point because we don't want to tell our enemies too much about where we are, but what  could you say? We have some technology that we didn't build. It's non-human in origin, as far as  we know. There's some other presence here we're working on. I don't know how much further you can  go. I think you can go all the way up to the line of what our current capabilities are in the  engineering program and integration program. I think you can go all the way up to the line of what our  current capabilities are in the engineering program and integration program. I think you can go all the  way up to that line. I think that that line should be discussed, but I think that is up to our elected  representatives to work with Russia and China and other nations that almost certainly have these  same technologies, and some very well may be further along than us in some capacity. I would  hope that, similar to atomic weapons, some type of an agreement can be made. I think you can  basically disclose everything up to the line of where we are currently at to the public, and then  that is for all of us. I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good  idea. I think that's a good idea. I think that is a good idea. So I think one of the A's is that there  are representatives to deal with  internationally, geopolitically, and I think that is just for hardware and what these things are. I think once that foundation  has been set, you can then start to disclose the other things, but what needs to be disclosed immediately is the crimes.  I think there's a there's a point where you couldn't say to much about them, and you don't want to scare the out of the public, but you could  acknowledge there's something, and then it opens up a new axis for  The possibility that legitimate mainstream scientists could get into it, theologians, different kinds of power structures in the world who would now know, oh, it's real.  It's not it's not disrespectful. I'm not going to get drummed out of academia for taking this seriously.  We can get on with it. Now, maybe that's a way to get to the answers.  But I suspect that whoever they are, they're always going to be at least one step ahead of us.  And I tend to agree. And, you know, I get the impression that they actually control it, which is conversations we've had as well.  I would say one other thing, though, that I would really want to point out, and this goes back to history and our nation.  And what is very concerning to me is in the past, America would bring the best and brightest forward to do things like this, whether that's computer hacking or work on this tech creative.  I mean, we would hire criminals and get them out of jail to come work.  I mean, we would hire criminals and get them out of jail to come work for the FBI.  I have grave concerns that in the day and age of artificial intelligence and academia, we no longer teach critical thinking.  And if you really want to understand this, you need to get people that think way outside the box and are creative thinkers and will look at it for what it is and then ask every single question on what that could mean.  And I have a very bad feeling we are not doing that.  No, I mean, it's like media, you know, so that was my start.  I was trying to get, I never figured I could figure out the mystery, but the start was trying to get other journalists to be interested.  Hey, this is real.  This is a real story.  You can pursue it.  It's honorable.  Yeah, you got to separate wheat from chaff.  There are crazy people who make shit up, but there's a real story here.  The learning curve is so intense.  You can't do this in a week.  You can't read a book.  Okay, now I figured it out or in six months or a year or five years.  It takes a long time.  And what?  What reporters have time to do that?  What members of Congress really have the time to get their heads around it?  Yeah, and that comes back to me coming forward.  Those are crimes.  You guys have seen it.  They committed crimes against me.  Our nation has done nothing about it.  Those agencies and those companies are still having contracts.  They're still making millions of dollars.  The VA doctors are still treating other patients.  To this day, no one's even sent me an apology.  In fact, the only person who even said thank you and it was a sideways thank you was the attorney.  It's like, thank you for your service.  To the nation, young man, I, it's depressing.  What do you think is going to happen to you after we release this?  Assuming that we can?  Well, I, uh, Jeremy is aware and I'm what you talked about last night as well.  My intent is to hopefully go on my honeymoon.  Finally, after all these years, uh, it's been unfair to my wife.  It's been unfair to me.  I want to disappear.  I don't want to even look at the internet.  Everybody can go and have their arguments.  The truth is the truth and the true speech for this itself.  And the truth is a light.  Yeah.  If people want disclosure, it's now up to you because this lame duck approach of we are going to make promises and we are going to go back on them and we want to do X, Y, and Z.  And you're given everything on a silver platter and no one makes an action on it to each their own, but everybody's going to have to answer for it at the end.  And I'm going to go and disappear for a while and see how this goes and hope that America comes to my back and to your back and to Matt's back and everybody.  Everybody who is testifying and has testified because at the end of the day, and this is why I really hope the vets calm is you served your country.  Your country has done this.  One thing that, you know, I'm not sure that Congress is ever going to be able to get to the bottom of it.  I'm encouraged that they're taking it seriously.  We know some of these members, you talk to them a lot, Jeremy, and, um, their interest is sincere and they want to get to the bottom.  But I mean, they're amateurs compared to the people who have been keeping these secrets and I'm not sure if they'll ever succeed.  But one thing they could do is establish some sort of a structure that protects whistleblowers, people who have a story to tell, like you, that would help them survive economically, give them a safe, a soft landing spot of financial support that encourages them to tell what they know, give them legal protections.  There are some things that are legal protections. Don't stop people from breaking into your house or cutting your brake lines or distributing health records that embarrass you. But there has to be some sort of support for people who have information, who'd like to come forward, but are scared.  I just want to say to our viewers, because this is a very difficult interview, because we want to be able to tell it like it is, you know, and just put it all on the table.  But you are highlighted.  You are highly restricted on certain elements of your knowledge of the legacy UAP stuff, because when you went in to do the right thing and you went to Aero and you went to the ICIG, they immediately classified and put into a SAP a lot of that UAP non-human intelligence information.  So our audience only gets to hear you say, I saw something. These are the reprisals against me because I fell into other information, but that information I can't talk about.  That's a different...  That's a difficult thing for the audience to have to hear.  Yeah, I 100% understand and agree, and maybe I can help them make it a little bit easier. I provided three rudimentary drawings, one of which was unclassified, and the other two were immediately thrown into a SAP. And the two that were thrown into a SAP prove we are not alone.  Can you replicate what you saw, at least, you know, of the triangle? Can you replicate for that for us today and just kind of draw that up?  Yeah, absolutely.  Okay, I think that's good. So we're doing our best to report based upon the testimony you brought to us, what you've done with Congress, what you've done with Aero, what you've done with the ICIG. Thank you for doing that, for bringing yourself forward. I hope that your testimony, even though it is limited right now, I hope that it does encourage other people. I really hope I see you up there in Congress with authorization to tell it like it is.  And that's the thing.  I don't know if we're going to get that for you. But, you know, thank you for doing that. Thank you for coming forward. And I hope people do support you and other people. I hope that you, your testimony encourages other people to come forward. If this is as you're saying, it's really fucking important.  It's the most important thing, I think, of our lifetime, and probably the most important thing going forward, because a lot of humanity's issues would be solved. But that is also the problem is humanity is humanity.  Do you have a message for anybody out there?  Who has experienced reprisals, such as you, or threats or feel scared to talk? What can you tell people that, you know, from your perspective, that you have a message for anybody that's stuck in this kind of situation dealing with UAP stuff?  Yeah, give me a second, because I just choked up again. I'm sorry. I'm so no, I'm sorry to them. I'm so sorry to them. This is a joke. It really is. I'm sorry for everybody who has tried to do the right thing. I'm sorry for all the people that sit at home.  And they have no one to talk to. They're isolated. They're lonely. And I talked to some of them. This country has done a crime against you. And I hope we are all able to find peace. And I hope that you can make your way to people that will help you get your story out.  Sucks. This really sucks.