Host/Narrator: In part two of our interview with the creator and head of the U.S. government's largest acknowledged UAP study program, Dr. James Lukatsky.
Dr. James Lacatski: The glory days of technologies were the 60s and 70s.
Dr. James Lacatski: There were a lot of bright ideas and a lot of tests.
Dr. James Lacatski: The Georgia case where the fella inadvertently hit, not inadvertently, he deliberately fired at a black triangle a million candle spotlight and it immediately fired back a radiation beam and he got tumors from it.
Jeremy: Through some investigative journalism over the years, I came to understand that you were read into and involved in a legacy UAP program before OSAP.
Jeremy: Do you deny that?
Jeremy: This is weaponized.
Host/Narrator: The following is part two of our interview with Dr. James Lukatsky.
Jeremy: I'm asking you about this crap.
Jeremy: I'm asking you, was it given to us?
Jeremy: Was it gifted to us?
Jeremy: Was it a crash?
Dr. James Lacatski: You're going to get people mad at me for not answering when they know in advance and so do you that I can't answer.
Dr. James Lacatski: And neither could they.
Dr. James Lacatski: And neither can some of the people who are going before Congress.
Dr. James Lacatski: They're putting pretty tight restrictions on.
Dr. James Lacatski: On it if they do.
Dr. James Lacatski: If they do go behind closed doors.
Dr. James Lacatski: I'm saying the closed doors don't really matter in answering their question.
Jeremy: Okay, here's something you can't answer.
Jeremy: I imagine you can't answer to me if the craft had its own intelligence, if it was sentient in some way in and of itself.
Jeremy: You're not going to answer that, I assume, right?
Jeremy: So I got one you can't answer.
Jeremy: Last one, George, on this craft.
Jeremy: But I just got to ask these or I'm not doing my job.
Jeremy: You alluded that the UFO in the possession of the U.S.
Jeremy: makes.
Jeremy: The technology described in your other book, Initial Revelations, look primitive.
Jeremy: What did you mean by that?
Dr. James Lacatski: It looks primitive.
Jeremy: Okay, but what does that mean to you?
Dr. James Lacatski: It means it's very advanced.
Dr. James Lacatski: And that's all I can say.
Dr. James Lacatski: Very, very advanced.
Dr. James Lacatski: And with worldwide repercussions.
Jeremy: Okay, but give me an idea I can sink my teeth into of what that means.
Jeremy: When you say very advanced.
Jeremy: I'm thinking, well, I've got an iPhone 17 and an original iPhone that's a big difference.
Jeremy: Are we talking, you know, sticks and stones to superconductors?
Jeremy: Advanced difference?
Dr. James Lacatski: Absolutely.
Unknown Guest: Jim Lekatsky, you know, you said earlier in this conversation, I am for disclosure.
Unknown Guest: I'm not sure that has always been your position as Express Trust.
Unknown Guest: Maybe it was, but I got a different impression.
Unknown Guest: Do these books constitute disclosure?
Unknown Guest: I mean, these are.
Dr. James Lacatski: This is in my opinion.
Dr. James Lacatski: Yes, they are my disclosure, and they are the public's disclosure.
Dr. James Lacatski: Remember, the public paid $22 million for the information.
Dr. James Lacatski: The resulting information from OSAP is for the most, well, for 99% is releasable.
Dr. James Lacatski: But here's another nitpick.
Dr. James Lacatski: It's not a nitpick.
Dr. James Lacatski: It's a fact.
Dr. James Lacatski: The government owns the reports.
Dr. James Lacatski: You've got to get it.
Dr. James Lacatski: You've got to get it from the government, and you've got to have it cleansed by the government and checked by the government for public release.
Dr. James Lacatski: I can't release to you the information.
Dr. James Lacatski: If I would, I'd get a big stapler and and and staple all the documents together and give it to you.
Dr. James Lacatski: And if if you wanted to try to interpret it, go ahead.
Dr. James Lacatski: It's going to be difficult.
Dr. James Lacatski: And that's also why, by the way, I broke up the technology portions into easy.
Dr. James Lacatski: Engineering degree, physics degree or Ph.D.
Dr. James Lacatski: And anyone who claims they understand all that is in those books for the technologies is fooling themselves.
Dr. James Lacatski: They're certainly not fooling other technical people.
Unknown Guest: These reports are gathered from OSAP.
Unknown Guest: They're investigated.
Unknown Guest: They're checked out and vetted incidents, experiences, things of that sort from the official D.I.A.
Unknown Guest: program.
Unknown Guest: They are approved.
Unknown Guest: through the DOPSER process.
Unknown Guest: You are given permission to make this public.
Unknown Guest: It is a form
Unknown Guest: of disclosure.
Dr. James Lacatski: Yes, it absolutely is.
Dr. James Lacatski: It may not be going as fast as people like, but
Dr. James Lacatski: you really want to buy a war and peace or rise and fall of the Third Reich?
Dr. James Lacatski: How much would that
Dr. James Lacatski: book cost?
Dr. James Lacatski: I mean, it has to be in a digestible amount.
Unknown Guest: Somebody had to say yes to allow this.
Unknown Guest: Are you amazed that you're allowed to continue and spill some of this stuff, make it public?
Unknown Guest: Because you would think there's got to be people somewhere, maybe in Arrow, who are not
Unknown Guest: all that thrilled that it's coming out.
Dr. James Lacatski: I don't know if that's really the case.
Dr. James Lacatski: It's what comes
Dr. James Lacatski: out and the detail of what comes out.
Dr. James Lacatski: Jeremy had said that before.
Dr. James Lacatski: It's like talking about
Dr. James Lacatski: a nuclear weapon and then having the design blueprints and the fuel for the weapon.
Dr. James Lacatski: There's a big difference there.
Dr. James Lacatski: I think this interview, I'm saying much more than the first
Dr. James Lacatski: one.
Dr. James Lacatski: But the thing is, it's all still hasn't crossed the line.
Dr. James Lacatski: But I've got to ask what the
Dr. James Lacatski: line is about future things.
Jeremy: Because you're telling us UFOs, we have one, we're reverse
Jeremy: engineering it.
Jeremy: But can you describe the inside?
Jeremy: Can you talk about your personal
Jeremy: experience? Can you talk about your personal experience? Can you talk about your personal
Jeremy: experience? Can you talk about your personal experience? Can you talk about your personal
Jeremy: experience with this crap, how you breached the hole?
Jeremy: You don't know if you can say those
Jeremy: things yet.
Jeremy: But certainly, they want us to know that much, not the nuclear codes, but the fact
Jeremy: nuclear weapons exist.
Jeremy: Same thing about UFOs.
Dr. James Lacatski: Yes, I believe it'll go in the same way.
Dr. James Lacatski: Yeah.
Dr. James Lacatski: And the thing is, is that now, there's some of this, the public has to, the public
Dr. James Lacatski: scientists have to participate in.
Dr. James Lacatski: As I said, Kona Blue was a compartment reputed to be
Dr. James Lacatski: for recovered technology.
Dr. James Lacatski: Okay.
Dr. James Lacatski: And then there's Kona Blue, the program, which was, in essence,
Dr. James Lacatski: first described in, and I'm pointing up to a book sitting up there, Skinwalkers at the Pentagon.
Dr. James Lacatski: Right.
Dr. James Lacatski: Because the private investment of money, we know that OSAP's not going to be repeated.
Dr. James Lacatski: We know that.
Dr. James Lacatski: There's no way that's going to be repeated.
Dr. James Lacatski: That focus on the paranormal and UFOs.
Dr. James Lacatski: So you got to learn now and then move on.
Dr. James Lacatski: You can't say, well, I'm going to fund another OSAP too.
Dr. James Lacatski: No.
Dr. James Lacatski: And if anyone thinks that that was
Dr. James Lacatski: the plan, well, they're wrong.
Unknown Guest: Is there anything that you were told you can't say this about that
Unknown Guest: craft?
Unknown Guest: Did you try to say more?
Unknown Guest: And through the DOPSAR process,
Unknown Guest: they said, nope, that crosses the line.
Dr. James Lacatski: No, I didn't try to say more because I know
Dr. James Lacatski: the rules and what they'd really deny.
Dr. James Lacatski: I will say there were some adjustments,
Dr. James Lacatski: not severe, but adjustments to Skinwalkers at the Pentagon.
Dr. James Lacatski: In other words, take this out type
Dr. James Lacatski: of adjustment.
Dr. James Lacatski: And I'm not talking about just names and academic institutions.
Dr. James Lacatski: We can't say
Dr. James Lacatski: this.
Dr. James Lacatski: We can't.
Dr. James Lacatski: here's something for jeremy we can't say this at that at this point but we did in the in the books
Dr. James Lacatski: further on it's just you know it's like inch by inch you can't you're making it right you can't
Jeremy: eat the whole whale at once no i and look i really appreciate it i mean i see it as a heroic thing
Jeremy: that you're making these books and pushing each time to get a little further i don't i think
Jeremy: people don't understand that or they're very frustrated that you are take your oath seriously
Jeremy: but something you just mentioned that i think is a big point of yours that you haven't that we
Jeremy: haven't really um pushed on at this point i mean you basically ran the x-files for the u.s government
Jeremy: i mean it was it was pretty wild there were wild things that occurred but you said it best you said
Jeremy: a study focused solely on ufos on ver on various unknown nuts and bolts type craft
Jeremy: flittering around in the
Jeremy: skies over military bases and facilities would never get to the heart of a much larger and
Jeremy: complicated mystery and i think what you were trying to say to us is if you just think you're
Jeremy: going to study ufos you're going to be smacked with reality reality is the ufo phenomenon is
Jeremy: just shrouded and covered with what you would call i don't know the the good word abnormal
Dr. James Lacatski: aspects of reality yes yes that you've got to look much further than nuts and bolts now
Dr. James Lacatski: can
Dr. James Lacatski: you study nuts and bolts and use it for a levitating craft would be tremendous doesn't
Dr. James Lacatski: have to be a fast craft uh but 11 a levitating airliner think about the the where it could go
Dr. James Lacatski: everywhere in the world it wouldn't need an airport but don't don't you think we've already
Jeremy: achieved that like we hear about all these people on military bases seeing triangles and you're
Jeremy: doing this study also to try to figure out the physics of how to do that do you think it's
Jeremy: already been achieved by the u.s government or it hasn't been achieved by the u.s government or it
Jeremy: hasn't been achieved by the u.s government or it hasn't been achieved by the u.s government or it hasn't
Jeremy: been achieved by the u.s government or it hasn't been achieved by the u.s government or it hasn't and that's why osap had a lot of
Jeremy: and that's why osap had a lot of
Dr. James Lacatski: and that's why osap had a lot of value it hasn't been achieved to its full
Dr. James Lacatski: value it hasn't been achieved to its full
Dr. James Lacatski: value it hasn't been achieved to its full extent
Dr. James Lacatski: extent
Dr. James Lacatski: extent and uh by the way that's where uh
UNKNOWN: and uh by the way that's where uh
Dr. James Lacatski: and uh by the way that's where uh a suggestion fronted by senator reed went
Dr. James Lacatski: a suggestion fronted by senator reed went
Dr. James Lacatski: a suggestion fronted by senator reed went into was
Dr. James Lacatski: into was
Dr. James Lacatski: into was i actually asked about your very question
Dr. James Lacatski: i actually asked about your very question
Dr. James Lacatski: i actually asked about your very question can we can we just cut through all this
Dr. James Lacatski: can we can we just cut through all this
Dr. James Lacatski: and do what we can do right now and check out this type of craft to the point of using all the money
Dr. James Lacatski: just it's like it's like just make it putting all your chips on one because i said the breakthrough
Dr. James Lacatski: would be tremendous if we can just pursue that um that wasn't funded either okay it was difficult
Dr. James Lacatski: just make it you know senator reed got into a situation where people were turning down the money
Dr. James Lacatski: one after another were turning down the money again doesn't that seem a bit odd a minority
Dr. James Lacatski: leader and and then a former majority leader of the senate and they're turning