
--- Page 1 ---
trophysical phenomena can cause the nine transients, and no instrumental
effect was identified as the root cause. The team wondered whether plate
contamination (plate defects) could be responsible, but found no support for
the explanation as the transients have star-like brightness profiles.
Furthermore, the team proposed that solar reflections from artificial ob-
jects could produce subsecond transients. The team followed up with a pre-
diction paper in Acta Astronautica [336] on how to identify potential non-
human artifacts more clearly in geosynchronous orbits around the Earth by
searching for several transients aligned in a row. Aligned transients help to
secure the separation between potential plate defects and nonhuman arti-
facts, and, indeed, two such statistically significant examples were identified
[337]. More recently, the team identified a bright triple transient that also ap-
pears and vanishes in 50 minutes, also without explanation [338]. Ironically,
the triple transient and the most improbable candidate alignment occurred
on 19 July 1952 and 27 July, respectively [339], two dates associated with
the Washington UFO flyovers when multiple UFOs were observed by highly
credible witnesses, both visually and over multiple airport radars.
In order to verify the existence of the multiple transient phenomenon, the
VASCO scientists have now started the new ExoProbe project [340], where
the goal is to search for multiple transients and signatures of extraterrestrial
probes with the help of multiple wide-field telescopes equipped with fast
cameras, aiming to detect, validate, characterize the spectrum and localize
any eventual probe.
7.2. Private and Citizen Science Research Efforts
7.2.1. The Hudson Valley - Pine Bush Studies. 1980—2003
Hynek et al. [341] provided detailed accounts and witness descriptions
for more than 62 individual sightings and some group sightings, selected
from more than 7,000 reports from six Hudson valley counties. The wave of
Hudson valley sightings was also described in [342] and [343].
UFO researcher Ellen Crystall conducted an extensive ten-year study of
UAP phenomena in the vicinity of Pine Bush, NY, starting in 1980 [344].
Whereas the Hudson Valley sightings tapered off in 1986 after spreading
north to Kingston, New York, and south to southern Long Island, New York
(see Sec. 7.2.2), and northern New Jersey, Crystall along with other witnesses
continued to observe anomalous objects near Pine Bush into late June 1988.
The observed objects were described as triangular, rectangular, boomerang
100

--- Page 2 ---
and dome-shaped, as well as orb-like light phenomena. Geologist Bruce Cor-
net joined the research effort in the early 1990s. Cornet hypothesized that
UAP activity in the area was related to the regional geology. This led him to
perform a five-year, ground-based, geological study in the Wallkill River Val-
ley, which runs through the Pine Bush region, with a focus on the mapping
and monitoring of magnetic anomalies.
UAP activity in and around Pine Bush rapidly dropped off in 1997, and
moved elsewhere, reappearing and surging in Suffolk County (eastern Long
Island) and Northern New Jersey around 2012, but never completely disap-
pearing from Pine Bush and east of the Hudson Valley [345].
7.2.2. Eye on the Sky
The Eye on the Sky platform is a fully instrumented mobile sensor de-
veloped by John and Gerald Tedesco, enabling the observation, detection,
tracking, data collection, and identification of unidentified objects in our
skies and along our coastline.
This state-of-the-art experimental expedi-
tionary vehicle, a fully instrumented high-tech mobile surveillance system,
offered a centralized location and system integration for environmental sur-
veys and safety assurance. As engineers in this study, the Tedescos deployed
two iterations of a cutting-edge proto-type mobile laboratory-observatory ve-
hicle. Nightcrawler-1, a robust ‘bottom-up construction design, was used for
the first three months of the study. Nightcrawler-2, an RV with a robust ’top-
down’ modification design and a retrofitted instrument payload, was used for
the subsequent seven months of scientific field study due to its superior speed
and mobility. It remains the current mobile system and is in continuous field
use.
John Tedesco, Gerald Tedesco, and Donna Nardo conducted a year-long
investigation field research study at Robert Moses State Park (RMSP), which
is located on a barrier island (Fire Island National Seashore) off the south
shore of Long Island, NY [346, 347]. The location is known for its unique
environmental conditions and potential for UAP. The research involved ten
months of data collection and analysis at the field site, with 12 hour overnight
observation shifts, including two months of research team meetings for careful
review, analysis, and collation of the data. The objective was to determine
whether aerial phenomena of an unknown nature exist in a coastal loca-
tion and to characterize their properties and behaviors. In this data-centric
study, a combination of primary (qualitative) and secondary (quantitative)
field observation methods was utilized. The principles and methodologies
101

--- Page 3 ---
of forensic engineering guided the study. The challenges set forward were
object detection, observation typology, and characterization, where cutting-
edge multispectral electro-optical devices and radar were employed due to
limited visual acuity and intermittent presentation of the phenomena. The
primary means of detection used a 3 cm X-band radar operating in two
scan geometries, the x- and y-axis. Multispectral and hyperspectral electro-
optical devices were used as a secondary detection and identification method.
In addition, emphasis was placed on the use of high-frequency (HF) and low-
frequency (LF) detectors and spectrum analyzers that incorporate electro-
magnetic (EM) field transducers (ultrasonic, magnetic, and RF) to record
spectral data in these domains. Data collection concentrated on recording
a wide or broad bandwidth of the electromagnetic spectrum, including vis-
ible, near-infrared (NIR), short-wave infrared (SWIR), long-wave infrared
(LWIR), ultraviolet (UVA, UVB, and UVC), and the higher-energy spec-
tral range of ionizing radiation (alpha, beta, gamma, and X-ray) recorded
by Geiger–M¨uller counters as well as special-purpose semiconductor diode
sensors.
A complete telemetry monitoring system, with meteorological, atmo-
spheric, and environmental displays, is inside the Nightcrawler. What makes
this system unique is the use of detection systems such as active radar and
hyperspectral optical systems. Active radar required the team to obtain an
experimental license from the FCC to deploy this technology on a land-based
mobile vehicle for UAP research. Furthermore, the radar system is innova-
tive and proprietary. By using two Radome antennas scanning a target in
two geometries, horizontal and vertical, an object size defined by its physical
cross-sectional profile produces much more detail scanned in this way. This
helps in better understanding the target’s distance, speed, and size.
7.2.3. The UAP Tracker Project
The UAP Tracker Project [348] was founded in and has been operational
since October 2021 [349]. It is a citizen science project designed to monitor
the skies for possible UAP events. The project uses five cameras, one with a
fisheye lens and four directional cameras, a HIKVISION DS-2TD2637T-15/P
therma/optical camera, as well as a passive forward scatter radar system
[350], a MADAR-III-B electromagnetic sensor, and a Automatic Dependent
Surveillance–Broadcast (ADS-B) tracking system to identify known aircraft.
The project relies on off-the-shelf commercial grade equipment whose data
output is processed by software, the majority of which is free and open source.
102

--- Page 4 ---
The data and video are live streamed over YouTube.
(https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCKO4qkQJvaGqsWLtqllbqxA),
7.2.4. UFO Data Acquisition Project (UFODAP)
The UFO Data Acquisition Project (UFODAP) system was developed
as a collaboration between Ron Olch [351] and the previous UFO Camera
Project team: Wayne Hollenbeck and Christopher O’Brien, to develop a low-
cost optical tracking system for UAP studies. The purpose of UFODAP is to
provide low-cost technology to recognize, track and record anomalous objects
while simultaneously collecting data from multiple sensors. The UFODAP
system is focused on visible / near-IR imagery as it performs moving target
detection and tracking using a Pan-Tilt-Zoom (PTZ) camera and the Op-
tical Tracking Data Acquisition Unit (OTDAU) software, which utilizes a
commercial machine vision algorithm to identify moving targets and track
them by rotation of the PTZ camera as needed. The UFODAP system was
used by the UAlbany-UAPx Collaboration in their 2021 study of the Catalina
Channel in southern California, published in this issue [61].
7.2.5. Sky360
Sky360 is an open source international sky observation project. Their ob-
servation stations consist of an AllSkyCam with a wide angle fish-eye lens and
a Pan-Tilt-Zoom (PTZ) camera, for which the wide-angle camera registers all
movement and enables the PTZ camera for tracking. Their software, which
is based on a computer vision “background subtraction” algorithm that mon-
itors differences in successive video frames to detect any motion, performs
a rough analysis of events in real time and decides whether to activate and
deploy other sensors, such as the PTZ camera. In addition to providing ob-
servation stations, Sky360 envisions facilitating “a citizen science project to
observe the skies and all their phenomena around the globe, 24/7 and pro-
vide harmonized high-quality results and analysis — available to everybody”
[352].
8. Organizations
8.1. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA)
The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) estab-
lished the Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Integration and Outreach
Committee (UAPIOC) in 2021 to advance the scientific understanding of
103

--- Page 5 ---
Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena (UAP) and improve aerospace safety.
Serving as a neutral, scientifically focused group, the UAPIOC brings to-
gether aerospace professionals, academics, industry experts, and policymak-
ers to collaboratively address the challenges associated with UAP research
and integration into aerospace systems.
The UAPIOC is dedicated to mitigating barriers to the scientific investi-
gation of UAP and fostering an environment conducive to open, data-driven
inquiry. The committee’s efforts are organized around two primary subcom-
mittees:
Hardware Factors Subcommittee
The Hardware Factors Subcommittee focuses on the detection, charac-
terization, and evaluation of UAP using advanced sensor systems. This
group works to build an understanding of which multi-modal sensor
packages best enable a deeper insight into UAP phenomena. Key activ-
ities include:
Sensor Evaluation and Selection:
Evaluation of a variety of sensor systems, including radar, optical,
infrared, and acoustic sensors, to determine the most effective com-
binations for UAP detection and characterization.
Collaborative Research:
Partnering with private research groups on sensor selection, place-
ment, and performance evaluation. These collaborations improve
the quality and scope of the collected data.
Technology Integration:
Develop methodologies for integrating sensor data into comprehen-
sive analytical frameworks to improve the detection and analysis of
UAP.
Human Factors Subcommittee
The Human Factors Subcommittee addresses the human element in UAP
incidents. Comprising of human factors engineers, cognitive scientists,
and aviation safety experts, this group focuses on:
Pilot Engagement and Interviews:
Conduct direct and structured interviews with pilots who have en-
countered UAP, using a two-phase approach to gather detailed ex-
periential data.
104

--- Page 6 ---
Collaboration with Americans for Safe Aerospace:
Working closely with Americans for Safe Aerospace (ASA), a non-
profit organization that receives UAP reports from commercial and
US veteran aviators.
With pilots’ permission, the subcommittee
assesses incident cases for analysis.
Safety Risk Evaluation:
Assessing aviation safety risks associated with UAP based on col-
lected data and pilot testimonies.
Recommendations for Reporting Mechanisms:
Formulating recommendations to enhance existing reporting sys-
tems for aviators, aiming to improve data collection and safety pro-
tocols.
Scientific Contributions and Outreach
The UAPIOC is involved in both advancing and promoting the scientific
study of UAP through the following activities:
Annual UAP-Focused Paper Sessions:
The UAPIOC holds yearly paper sessions at the AIAA Aviation and
ASCEND conferences. Throughout the year, the committee solicits
papers from academia and industry that align with the missions of
the Hardware Factors and Human Factors Subcommittees. These
sessions aim to expand the understanding of UAP through rigorous
scientific inquiry. Since its inception, the UAPIOC has facilitated
the introduction of 15 UAP-related papers.
Panel Discussions and Community Engagement:
The committee organizes panel sessions at conferences to engage
with the broader scientific and engineering community within AIAA.
These panels provide platforms for experts to discuss current chal-
lenges, share insights, and foster collaborative solutions related to
UAP research.
Collaborations with Academic Institutions:
By partnering with leading universities and research organizations,
the UAPIOC promotes interdisciplinary research efforts that ad-
dress both technological and human aspects of UAP incidents.
Impact and Future Directions
The efforts of the UAPIOC have significantly advanced the scientific
105

--- Page 7 ---
study of UAP and contributed to improving aerospace safety. By focus-
ing on both technological advancements and human factors, the commit-
tee addresses the multifaceted nature of UAP incidents. Looking ahead,
the UAPIOC plans to:
Expand Collaborative Research Initiatives:
Continue partnerships with private research groups and academic
institutions to advance sensor technologies, data analysis methods,
and understanding of UAP phenomena.
Enhance Pilot Reporting Mechanisms:
Utilize findings from the Human Factors Subcommittee to advocate
for improvements in US and international reporting systems, mak-
ing it easier for aviators to report UAP encounters without fear of
reprisal.
Increase Educational Outreach:
Develop training materials and workshops to educate pilots and
aviation professionals about UAP detection, reporting procedures,
and safety protocols related to UAP.
Influence Policy and Standards Development:
Work with government agencies and international organizations to
influence policy changes and establish global standards for UAP
reporting and investigation.
Through its dedicated subcommittees and collaborative efforts, the AIAA
UAPIOC plays a pivotal role in the new science of monitoring UAP. By inte-
grating technological advances with human factors research, the committee
improves the collective understanding of UAP and contributes to the safety
and integrity of aerospace operations. The UAPIOC remains committed to
fostering an open and scientific approach to UAP investigation, promoting
transparency, and facilitating the advancement of aerospace knowledge.
8.2. National Aviation Reporting Center on Anomalous Phenomena (NAR-
CAP)
The National Aviation Reporting Center on Anomalous Phenomena (NAR-
CAP) was established late in 1999 by Richard F. Haines (Chief Scientist),
(see Appendix A.5) and Ted Roe (Executive Director) to deal with the fact
that commercial pilots were not reporting the aerial phenomena they had
106

--- Page 8 ---
seen, of highly unusual and unexplainable characteristics, to their manage-
ment. At the time, it was likely that military pilots were doing much the
same.
The aim was to offer a website (https://www.narcap.org/) on which
all American pilots could submit the details of their encounters no matter
how strange and unbelievable they were without discrimination or ridicule.
NARCAP presented a safe place for them while evaluating their reports to:
1. see if they might contain valuable scientific and/or engineering data
that could be relevant to UAP 6 studies that might improve our under-
standing.
2. publish any findings on the NARCAP website for the benefit of any
and all interested parties.
3. help motivate other pilots to report their sightings as well.
All pilot and air traffic controller names were kept confidential to protect
them from unwarranted and often biased recrimination. It was decided to
confine the studies only to US pilots and, if there was any possibility that the
sighting might contain restricted data, NARCAP would not get involved.
In order to help NARCAP gain and maintain an image of objectivity and
neutrality in this controversial area of study, one that had long-collected a
distorted image smeared by skeptics for decades, and be accepted by aviation
authorities (FAA, commercial airlines, government agencies and its many de-
partments, and others) NARCAP deliberately avoided all contact with UFO
groups. NARCAP operated under the premise that if the work of private
UAP organizations was ever going to be accepted by the government and the
aviation community, they would have to prove themselves by providing some
kind(s) of useful, practical data of value.
The “useful product” generated by NARCAP was safety as related to avi-
ation. Today, there are 715 licensed commercial airlines in the world. Of
these, US airlines carried 853 million passengers in 2022 and 980 million the
following year. Worldwide, airlines carried 342 billion passengers in 2022 and
468 billion in 2023. This represents a very large number of potential eye wit-
nesses of UAP not even counting the flight crews. Unfortunately, eyewitness
reports from airplane passengers provide very little reliable information on
6Richard Haines (NARCAP) first used the UAP acronym.
107

--- Page 9 ---
UAP. However, in 2022, a total of 366 UAP aviation reports were received
by US government officials and about 171 of them were evaluated as un-
explained. In 2023 there were 270 reports reported to the Department of
Defense with a few from commercial pilots. In fact, most of them came from
military pilots. During NARCAP’s twenty-four years of operation, NARCAP
received many valuable reports from private pilots as well.
Why are pilot and related aircrew reports valuable?
1. Pilots are highly trained, educated, and experienced witnesses. They
have seen a wide variety of weather and related visual phenomena in
their careers and so, may not be so easily fooled to misinterpret some-
thing. This is not to say they can’t be fooled by some highly unusual
opto-visual atmospheric effects as skeptics often suggest.
2. If pilots do make a report they usually do so only after eliminating a
long list of “more acceptable” explanations and are finally left with an
unknown—a UAP. When they do report, they often end up facing the
negative scrutiny of their employers. This is why NARCAP guarantees
their anonymity.
3. They are flying airplanes carrying a greal deal of sensitive instrumen-
tation that might sense, and even record, electro-magnetic radiation
related to the UAP, local air temperature and/or pressure changes,
and more.
4. They are in radio contact with ground support personnel such as radar
operators who can check if there may be some other sufficiently reflect-
ing and/or emitting object(s) nearby or even scramble other airplanes
to assist.
5. They can maneuver to avoid a collision or achieve a different perspective
on the UAP, for example, to get above it with the Earth as background
and thereby establish its maximum visual slant range.
Pilots make good witnesses.
NARCAP called together an advisory group made up of two notable
physicists, several engineers and pilots, a meteorologist, an air traffic con-
troller, a human factors specialist, and several others. They provided invalu-
able advice on technical and policy issues. See Section Appendix A.17 in this
report regarding Jacques Vall´ee who also served on their Advisory Board.
108

--- Page 10 ---
How could UAP flying near an airplane possibly be dangerous? First, if
the UAP came close enough, the pilot might make a rapid avoidance ma-
neuver (in addition to its various consequences to passengers and subsequent
responses by air traffic controllers on the ground). The flight crews could
then become so fascinated by their presence that they interfere with their
continuous monitoring of their flight instruments.
Disturbances of various cockpit instruments by electro-magnetic energy
(seemingly) emanating from the UAP could impact flight safety [353]. This
has also definitely happened. Having reliable E-M data may contribute to a
fuller understanding of the physics related to UAP.
The NARCAP model has helped to foster similar organizations in other
nations. Since aviation safety is so important to so many people, it is not
surprising that NARCAP’s mission-objectives and reporting procedures have
led others in Chile and Germany to form their own national organizations.
There may well be others as well. NARCAP has been in communication with
pilots and officials in many other nations.
NARCAP has produced reports, which have been subdivided into the
following categories (all are available at https://www.narcap.org/): Tech-
nical Reports: (In-depth reports of specific cases); Topical Reviews: (topical
subjects possibly related to operations and existence of UAP); Investigator
Support Papers: (a variety of useful information for interested researchers
prepared by American and foreign authors); International Air Safety Reports:
(Reports of foreign UAP encounters and related phenomena of interest to US
investigators); and International Technical Specialist Reports: (collection of
broad statistics and topics of general interest).
8.3. The Scientific Coalition for UAP Studies (SCU)
The Scientific Coalition for UAP Studies (SCU), a nonprofit organization
dedicated to the scientific study of the phenomena, was organized in 2017 and
incorporated as a 501(c)(3) non-profit in 2018. The organization is managed
by a Board of Directors and eight Board Advisors that meet monthly.
The SCU mission is the scientific exploration of unidentified aerospace
phenomena, and it achieves its mission with the following goals and objec-
tives:
• to establish a foundation and resource for credible, objective, scientific
peer reviewed content on the subject of UAP;
109

--- Page 11 ---
• to create partnerships in scientific and technological endeavors to ex-
plore UAP with other scientific organizations, universities, and govern-
ments bodies to help improve the data collection, data dissemination
and research of the UAP subject;
• and to sponsor public and networking environments and events to aug-
ment communication within the serious research community.
The organization is international in scope and is currently composed of
over 350 members from a wide diversity of scientific disciplines and the ma-
jority with advanced degrees. SCU is highly regarded for its transparency
and credibility. In addition to numerous published scientific studies [354, 300,
134, 259, 355, 356, 236, 243, 357, 244], it holds annual conferences, publishes
a quarterly newsletter, supports UAP project teams, hosts a podcast, and
provides periodic press releases.
8.4. The Sentinel Center
The Sentinel Center [358] is an association created in 2024 to promote
scientific research and archiving of documentation concerning maritime, land,
air and space surveillance.
The Sentinel Library [359] facilitates access to documents through its
Internet portal, allowing the referencing of texts, analyses, and references
listed in chronological order to facilitate the work of scientists. The Library
also has its own physical library, hosted in France, which can be consulted by
a residency in the Champagne region, alongside archives that are held under
its care.
The Sentinel Lab [209] designs and tests surveillance platforms aiming
to record fast moving targets that would otherwise evade astronomical in-
struments. It consists of a mobile observatory able to be deployed during
high-intensity events and a fixed observatory located in a low light pollution
environment, hosted at the same site as the Library. Finally, Sentinel News
[360] acts as an information platform covering scientific and military news
related to UAP in English, French, Spanish, and Italian.
8.5. 3AF-SIGMA2
SIGMA2 is a Technical Commission of 3AF (Association A´eronautique et
Astronautique de France) comprised of 25 experts in aeronautics and astro-
nautics on physical observables, as well as the effects of unknown aerospace
110

--- Page 12 ---
phenomena. 3AF (http://www.3af.fr) is a technical society registered un-
der the French legislation (France, Loi 1901, non-profit organization), which
gathers about 1500 individual members as well as aerospace industrial, aca-
demic and institutional partners including CNES (French Space National
Agency), DGAC (French Civil Aviation Directorate), DGA (French MoD
Directorate for armament programs and exports), ISAE (French aerospace
school of engineers), Airbus, Dassault Aviation, MBDA, SAFRAN, THALES
and many other groups.
The 3AF UAP technical commission was created in 2008 bringing to-
gether aeronautics experts. It was renamed SIGMA, then SIGMA2 in 2013.
SIGMA2 was tasked with a new and specific mandate. Its mission is not
to conduct investigations in the field on UAP cases (GEIPAN mission for
cases in France), but to study unexplained UAP cases (foreign or D type
in GEIPAN typology, which amount to unexplained cases based on reliable
testimony) using a scientific methodology. SIGMA2 consists of 25 high-level
experts from the civil or military domains (research or industry laboratories).
They are skilled in aeronautics and space, air, space and missile defense, elec-
tromagnetic radiation physics and weapons, high-energy plasma, medicine,
biology, missile propulsion, radar, IR, acoustical detection. They are mainly
engineers, Ph.D.s., astronauts, fighter and civil pilots, air traffic controllers,
and some experts in political science, psychologists, and physics. Their ob-
jective is to conduct analysis on the UAP cases based on physical observables,
on physical or psychological effects, which can involve multiple domains from
medicine to electronics warfare and directed energy weapons.
As a result, SIGMA2 studies of UAP cases are conducted scientifically
by relying on physical data like radar, IR/electro-optical or electromagnetic
observables, with the goal of understanding the physics related to the UAP
observables, including the effects induced on human beings. For this rea-
son, the efforts of SIGMA2 are interdisciplinary in nature, simultaneously
involving physicists employing optical, infrared, and electromagnetic sensors
to study the observables of UAP, but also involving psychologists studying
the effects induced on humans, including the psychological effects of UAP on
people.
Many reports and documents are published in the 3AF-SIGMA2 media
repository [361] among them the 3AF-SIGMA2 Progress Report 2021, which
includes a list of cases analysis and a tour of the physical features of UAP
[149]. 3AF-SIGMA2 also organizes webinars on physical observables of UAP
[362].
111

--- Page 13 ---
8.6. The Society for UAP Studies (SUAPS)
The Society for UAP Studies (https://www.societyforuapstudies.o
rg/) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, which was organized in September
2022 to play a vital role in creating the necessary academic foundations for a
stable and sustainable transgenerational scholarly field focused on the many
aspects of UAP. The Society takes as its primary mission to promote and
actively aid in the development of UAP studies as a proper area of scholarly
research.
As a professional scholarly association, the Society for UAP Studies ex-
ists both for the kind of professional development expected of such an or-
ganization, such as organizing conferences and colloquia; conducting public
roundtable discussions on key issues; developing academic curricula and ped-
agogy in the field, among many other activities and functions, and for broader
community outreach. With its outreach, the Society aims not only to raise
awareness about the subject, but — and most importantly — to help educate
the general public on how it is that scholars approach their subject, even one
as complex and challenging as UAP.
SUAPS manages and publishes the only English-language, peer-reviewed
scholarly journal devoted entirely to UAP Studies: Limina - The Journal of
UAP Studies. It is hosted by Scholastica at: https://limina.scholasticahq.com/.
The Society plays a vital role in demonstrating to other academics that
not only does UAP Studies have as valid a place within mainstream academia
as any other established field (even though it is still a young, developing area
of study), it also plays a vital role in demonstrating that the empirical study
of UAP (i.e. as an object of investigation for the natural sciences) can be done
by using the accepted methods and practices of the sciences not to dismiss the
subject (or explain it away), but rather to sincerely pursue UAP as a genuine
problem in the physical sciences — one that potentially requires explanatory
options outside of what is accepted as conventional. Mainstream scholars are
right to worry about stepping outside of conventional explanations when it
comes to UAP; but equally, scholars and scientists should be able to (and
indeed should be expected to) engage in the more challenging meta-theoretical
and philosophical considerations that must be tackled when attempting to
challenge or exit altogether conventional thinking - whether for UAP or for
any other object of careful study.
This, finally, is also what the Society
exists for: organized, systematic inquiry at the meta-theoretic and more
philosophical levels, as an aid to navigating the terrain of unconventional -
or what we might call “liminal” — epistemologies.
112

--- Page 14 ---
8.7. The Sol Foundation
The Sol Foundation addresses the complex political, scientific, and so-
cial challenges raised by UAP by combining an academic research institute
and a policy think tank into one organization. This allows the foundation
to provide policymakers with scientific insights into the puzzling data they
face while guiding academics to listen to the US government as it releases
UAP information. Sol’s approach has led to requests for advice from several
national governments, including the US Senate and House, the Parliament of
Canada, the EU Parliament and Commission, and the Parliament of Japan.
The institute’s non-applied research focuses on three problems: the prove-
nance of potential UAP materials, human narratives and experiences about
so-called non-human intelligence, and how multi-agent AI can be used to
reduce UAP misinformation.
8.8. UAP Check
An international network called UAP Check was launched from Europe
in 2023 [363]. Among its goals are to:
1. Survey ongoing research activities about UAP worldwide, update a list
of who is doing what, and connect those who are working on similar
projects.
2. Build a vetted bibliography on the UAP topic. The first two parts of
the bibliography were published in 2024:
• The first part consists of a collection of 460 university theses and
dissertations on UFO / UAP, which is now available as both a
catalog [364] and a search tool [365].
• The second part is a selection of 690 articles published on the
specific topic in peer-reviewed scientific journals [366].
These efforts aim to improve outreach efforts, reduce stigma, and provide
reliable information about UAP.
9. Social Sciences
Although this paper has focused mainly on the physical sciences, it is
important to recognize that UAP have also been the subject of considerable
113

--- Page 15 ---
research within the social sciences. While a thorough analysis of UAP re-
search in this field would require an exploration as detailed as the current one
on the physical sciences — a task beyond the scope of this paper — we can
nonetheless identify key limitations that the social sciences have encountered
and suggest alternative directions they might pursue if these limitations were
overcome.
The central methodological approach in social science studies of UAP
has been the suspension of judgment regarding their existence. This princi-
ple allows researchers to evaluate controversial claims more objectively and
shields them from the stigma that still often surrounds the topic of UAP. By
avoiding a stance on the actual existence of UAP, social scientists focus on
people’s beliefs and perceptions. They explore how these beliefs should be
best understood—as myths [367, 368, 369] religious phenomena [370, 371],
forms of rationality [371] or irrationality [370], or alternative lay sociological
constructs [372]—–and analyze the social consequences that arise, such as the
development of new religious movements [373], forms of social estrangement
[374] or shifts in political orientations [375].
This approach means that social scientists primarily focus on the individ-
uals who claim that UAP are real, rather than investigating anything about
UAP themselves. By suspending judgment or presuming nonexistence, these
studies tend to offer purely sociological or psychological explanations for why
certain individuals or communities hold beliefs considered fringe. Although
the assumption that one can analyze a phenomenon socially without con-
sidering its actual existence has been a powerful methodological tool, it also
risks a form of social reductionism: treating UAP solely as social constructs
without acknowledging any independent social consequences their existence
might entail.
An analogy with climate change helps to clarify this point. Beliefs about
climate change have significant social (and existential) consequences that
merit study, but climate change itself has tangible societal effects that ex-
tend beyond individual or collective beliefs. If researchers indefinitely sus-
pend their judgment on the reality of climate change, they miss the opportu-
nity to study its direct impact on social structures and practices. Similarly,
by suspending judgment on the existence of UAP, social scientists limit the
range of questions they can ask witnesses and may overlook the potential
significance of patterns in testimonies. For example, when witnesses across
decades and regions report objects that show intelligent control, incredible
speeds, non-aerodynamic shapes and maneuvers, and near-complete silence,
114

--- Page 16 ---
a social theorist might focus on how these accounts spread as sociocultural
memes and express long-standing cultural anxieties [376]. This focus risks
ignoring what these reports might reveal about the underlying phenomenol-
ogy of whatever is controlling the UAP. As a result, this approach can distort
our understanding of witness testimonies by reducing them solely to historical
and sociocultural phenomena.
Despite various studies on UAP within the social sciences, researchers
have seldom taken the possibility of their actual existence seriously enough
to challenge the foundational assumptions of their disciplines. They have
not explored how their methodologies and theories would need to evolve if it
were the case that a higher non-human intelligence has been interacting with
humans over time. Critical questions remain unaddressed: How might such
interactions have shaped societal structures? How can we accurately discern
and characterize their social influences? How would this shift our interpreta-
tions of witness testimonies? What recurring patterns should we prioritize in
reports and what significance should be attributed to them? These questions
have largely been neglected because the social sciences have not seriously
considered the prospect of technologically advanced non-human intelligences
interacting with humanity.
The tendency to suspend judgment—a stance
that has been understandable given the stigma around UAP studies—has led
to reductionist explanations that risk overlooking critical dimensions of the
phenomenon. However, researchers risk professional censure if they deviate
from this norm.
There have been notable exceptions to this general trend. A prominent
example is the argument of Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall [377] that
if UAP were real, governments would be compelled to deny their existence.
They contend that acknowledging UAP would threaten the anthropocentric
foundations of state sovereignty and, by extension, sovereignty itself. Official
recognition of UAP would imply a lack of control over national security, thus
undermining the legitimacy of the government. Their argument provides a
compelling theoretical framework for understanding why governments might
resist disclosing information about UAP. However, this line of thought has
not been further developed or explored by other social scientists, leaving
critical questions unaddressed.
For example, governments are complex entities composed of intercon-
nected and overlapping bureaucracies that rarely operate in perfect unison.
This complexity suggests that gaps within these structures could be ex-
ploited, potentially leading to some level of official recognition of UAP. Wendt
115

--- Page 17 ---
and Duvall’s argument also opens the possibility of exploring how internal
factions within governments—some pushing for greater disclosure, others for
secrecy—could create public confusion about the existence of UAP. This dy-
namic, evident today in the conflicting statements from various government
sources, may also help explain the social and political confusion surrounding
UAP in recent years [378][379]. These aspects of Wendt and Duvall’s work
highlight promising avenues of inquiry that could shed light on what we are
seeing today, yet have largely been left unexplored by the broader field.
Another potential extension of Wendt and Duvall’s argument could ex-
plore the idea that if UAP are indeed advanced nonhuman intelligences,
governments might actively suppress related scientific research to maintain
national security, a fundamental aspect of state sovereignty. This suppression
could include efforts to reverse engineer nonhuman technology, with nations
competing against each other to gain technological advantages —- a claim
that some highly placed government officials have recently made [380]. The
impact of such secrecy on the development of a legitimate academic science
of UAP remains largely unexamined, as are the broader implications for in-
ternational relations.
These unexplored areas highlight the limitations of
suspending judgment on the existence of UAP and challenge the notion that
the social consequences of UAP can be fully understood without confronting
the reality of the phenomenon itself.
Moving beyond these questions of governmental dynamics, scholars like
Diana Pasulka [381, 382] and Jeffrey Kripal [383, 384] have offered fresh
perspectives on the UAP phenomenon by examining its intersections with
religious and mystical experiences. They argue that UAP encounters bear
remarkable resemblances to experiences recounted in religious and mystical
texts, blurring the lines between the sacred and the secular, the technological
and the spiritual. Without claiming that historical religious encounters were
actually UAP sightings or that modern UAP encounters are simply contem-
porary religious or mystical experiences, Pasulka and Kripal highlight how
these similarities challenge fundamental categories. Their work suggests that
a purely physical scientific approach may be insufficient to fully comprehend
UAP. By emphasizing these phenomenological parallels, they call attention
to the need for new concepts, categories, and methodologies that transcend
traditional disciplinary boundaries, enabling a more nuanced apprehension
of UAP.
This has significant implications not only for religious studies but for the
social sciences and the scientific community as a whole. By exploring these
116

--- Page 18 ---
dimensions, researchers could begin to address critical questions previously
neglected, such as how UAP might interact with human consciousness or
influence cultural narratives. Incorporating such perspectives encourages a
more comprehensive understanding of UAP phenomena, moving beyond re-
ductionist explanations and acknowledging that existing scientific paradigms
may not fully capture their complexity. This approach underscores the neces-
sity of interdisciplinary collaboration and innovative methodological frame-
works to advance our understanding of both human experiences and the
nature of UAP themselves.
In summary, the social sciences have typically approached the UAP topic
by suspending belief in their existence and treating believers as subjects of
a peculiar social phenomenon. This analytical stance separates the study of
social impacts from the question of the actual existence of UAP, assuming
that the social analysis would remain the same regardless. This approach
contrasts sharply with how social scientists engage with more conventional,
legitimate fields of science and technology. In those areas, researchers explore
how scientific communities establish evidentiary standards [385], develop rea-
soning frameworks [386], and form epistemic objects [387, 388] — all while
acknowledging the existence of the phenomena they study.
For example,
social scientists examining virology would never question the existence of
viruses, as doing so would fundamentally change the interpretation of scien-
tific practices and findings.
However, in the case of UAP, the focus tends to remain on why people
hold these beliefs, without seriously considering that such beliefs might be
rooted in actual events. This oversight often leads to the dismissal of soci-
ological evidence that might point toward the existence of UAP. To deepen
our understanding, social scientists may need to move beyond the safe har-
bor of suspended judgment and consider more openly the potential existence
of UAP and the profound implications this could have on society, research
methodologies, and the foundational assumptions of their disciplines.
10. The Scientific Methodology and Best Practices for Collecting
UAP Data
In this section we summarize the scientific methodology that has been
found to be useful, as well as best practices, to detect, monitor and study
UAP. Several papers have been published that present useful summaries.
Most notable are the papers by Ailleris [63, 64], the Galileo Project [329, 332,
117

--- Page 19 ---
327, 331, 62], the Hessdalen Project [316, 313, 389, 314, 315], the UAlbany-
UAPx Collaboration in this volume [61], the UAP Tracker Project [349,
348], the Tedescos’ Eye On The Sky Project [347, 346], and the numerous
IFEX projects, such as SKY-CAM, SONATE-2, KI-SENS, and VaMEx3-
MarsSymphony, which are summarized in Sec. 7.1.3.
It is generally agreed that the optimal methodology to study UAP relies
on many different types of instruments, spatially separated, to dramatically
reduce the possibility of error. This is the only way in which the scientific
community will recognize truly anomalous data.
The modern equivalent
is that of multi-messenger astronomy, which uses instruments of multiple
modalities [62, 61]. The UAlbany-UAPx Collaboration makes the following
recommendation, “We recommend at least two of each type of sensor and
2+ distinct sensor types.”, along with a statistical procedure to define terms,
such as coincidence, ambiguity and anomaly: [61]
We suggest (scientific) UAP researchers adopt the following con-
ventions: An ambiguity requiring further study is a coincidence
between two or more detectors or data sets at the level of 3σ
or more, with a declaration of genuine anomaly requiring (the
HEP-inspired) 5σ... Coincidence here is defined as “simultaneity”
within the temporal resolution, and spatial when germane. This
way, one rigorously quantifies the meaning of extraordinary evi-
dence, in the same way it has been done historically by particle
physicists, who have established a very high bar to clear. The sta-
tistical significance must be defined relative to a null hypothesis,
in our case accidental coincidence, combined with causally-linked
hypotheses, like cosmic rays striking camera pixels.
Additional discussion of these concepts and the criteria for recognizing out-
liers, anomalies, and novel classes in the formal analysis of multimodal in-
strument data can be found in [62, 330].
To achieve useful results, precision is required. The experimenter must
know both the position and pose (orientation) of the instrumentation and
acquire data with precise timing.
10.1. Time Synchronization
Time synchronization of the equipment is important so that recorded
events can be precisely correlated. The precision required should be a func-
tion of the rate at which the data is collected, which is typically different for
118

--- Page 20 ---
different instruments. For example, typical video frame rates are on the or-
der of 24 fps (frames per second), which corresponds to a characteristic time
of 41.6 ms. Since some video cameras can handle frame rates of 300 fps, this
would suggest that better time synchronization than 3 ms would be desirable.
10.2. Instrument Positioning
One way to control the positioning of the instrumentation is to mount
the equipment on a rack so that they have known relative positions. The
positions and orientations of multiple racks would then have to be measured,
most likely with precisions appropriate to the sizes of the specific pieces of
equipment, which will be of the order 1 −10 cm. The positions of multiple
pieces of instrumentation can be more easily measured and monitored using
a Local Positioning System (LPS) [390, 391, 392, 393].
10.3. Diverse Types of Instrumentation
It is desirable to have many different types of instrumentation to measure
different aspects of the phenomenon. The papers published by the different
currently operating groups, mentioned above at the beginning of this section,
provide a great deal of information on the methodologies, measurements, and
instrumentation employed.
10.3.1. Light-Based Imagery
In this section, we discuss UAP imagery based on light acquisition. This
includes optical imagery ranging from infrared (IR) through visual (VIS)
to ultraviolet (UV) imagery. Given both the large number of UAP images
recorded using visible-light cameras, as well as the US Navy and Homeland
Security imagery recorded in the near-infrared range using Forward Look-
ing InfraRed (FLIR) Cameras, imagery in these modalities is already rather
familiar.
Acquiring imagery in the near- and far-infrared is important, as in addi-
tion to imagery at wavelengths inaccessible to the human eye, IR imagery
has the capability to provide information that enables one to estimate the
temperatures of the object. This is especially important with UAP, as it
has been observed that many UAP are extremely cold (sometimes at tem-
peratures down to -50 C or −60◦F). Such imagery can provide important
information about the lift and propulsion mechanisms employed by the UAP.
In addition, obtaining ultraviolet (UV) imagery extends the imaging window
119
