
--- Page 1 ---
A
B
C
D
B Reactor Construction  Begins Aug 1943
B Reactor Completed Sept 1944
Plutonium Produced Dec 1944
X-10 Plant Uranium to Los Alamos
Construction Begins for Plutonium Site
Y-12 Plant Uranium to Manhattan Project
Receives Radioactive Materials
Changes to Research Only
Storage Q Site Completed
Hanford Nuclear Works
Bellingham WA
McChord AFB
Fairchild AFB
Larson AFB
Oak Ridge Complex
Langley AFB
Norfolk Naval Station
Los Alamos Complex
Walker AFB
Santa Fe NM
Peterson/Ent AFB
Killeen Atomic National Stockpile
Austin TX
Reese AFB / Lubbock AFB
Figure 4: This figure shows histograms of UAP sightings at four different nuclear weapon
complexes (top, yellow) and their nearby control sites from 1943 to 1960 (Adapted from:
[236]). A. The Hanford Nuclear Complex in Pasco Washington was a production facility
for radioactive material. The control sites were the nearby Bellingham, Washington pop-
ulation center, McChord Air Force Base, Fairchild Air Force Base, and Larson Air Force
Base. B. The Oak Ridge Complex in Oak Ridge Tennessee was also a radioactive material
production site. Its control sites were the nearby Langley Air Force Base and the Norfolk
Naval Station. C. The Los Alamos Complex in Los Alamos, New Mexico was a nuclear
weapon assembly facility. Its control sites were the Santa Fe, New Mexico population
center, Walker Air Force Base and Peterson/Ent Air Force Base. D. The Killeen Atomic
National Stockpile was a nuclear weapon storage area near Austin Texas. Its control sites
were the Austin population center and the Reese and Lubbock Air Force Bases.
60

--- Page 2 ---
plane was [already] armed and warmed-up on the tarmac. Brown
stated that he would go and Neal was to stand-by in another
plane, in case of trouble.
I was to join the [controller] in the
tower and communicate info from radar to the pilots.
Brown quickly found the object, a bright ball of fire, and took
chase. But he could not close, even with water injection that
gave a quick boost in speed. The object headed out NW towards
Seattle and was quickly lost by radar. Brown returned to base
and we three returned to the club, still shaking and wondering
what we had encountered.
UFO historian Jan Aldrich provided Hastings with documents obtained
by his research group, Project 1947, from the Headquarters Fourth Air Force.
One of these documents, dated January 23, 1945 and directed to the Com-
manding General of the Army Air Forces and the Assistant Chief of Air Staff
Training, places the events described above by Lt. Clem in a greater context
[235, p.45][238]:
Resulting from an unidentified aircraft flying over the Hanford
Engineering Company Plant at Pasco, Wash. on at least three
nights in the past month (this company is involved in undisclosed
projects for the War and Navy Departments) this HQ was re-
quested by [Western Defense Command], about ten days ago,
to move one [battery] of searchlights from Seattle to the Pasco
plant.
The Thirteenth Naval District has made arrangements
for Naval Air Station, Pasco, to employ both radar and fighter
aircraft in attempting interception of these unidentified aircraft.
The airspace over the Hanford Company is both a Danger area
and a Restricted area. Our battery of searchlights has been in
place since 15 January; one incident has occurred since that date
in which a brief radar contact was made—attempted night inter-
ception again failed.
Killeen Atomic National Stockpile, also known as Site Baker, was one
of the most sensitive atomic weapon sites in the US. Hastings [235] quotes
researcher Loren Gross [239]:
After becoming a true bomb factory, Sandia shipped assembled
bombs to Camp Hood, Texas where there was a secure storage
61

--- Page 3 ---
site guarded by the 12th Armored Infantry Battalion under the
command of the Fourth Army . . . It is suggested that the ‘green
fireballs’ which appeared over Sandia in late 1948 bear a direct
relationship to a sudden ramp-up of American nuclear weapon
production. [Similarly,] in March 1949, when strange ‘flares’ ap-
peared around the ‘Q’ area at Camp Hood, it is suggested that
this interest by UFOs was triggered by the recent arrival of the
first shipment of atomic bombs which was stored as America’s
first stockpile.
These strange flares were first observed on March 6th 1949 by Army
security patrols near the Q Area, which housed the nuclear weapons. On
the evening of March 8th, there were seven sightings with multiple observers
across the base allowing for precise triangulation. Capt. McCulloch and his
party observed the lights and recognizing that it was not a flare, he placed
the entire base on alert. On reviewing the sightings and their triangulations,
Fourth Army Intelligence Personnel in San Antonio became alarmed noting
that the lights had done a “good job” bracketing off the Q Area [240, p.257–
259].
Some of the strangest encounters occurred more than a month later when
on April 27, 1949 at 9:20pm two members of a patrol station southeast of
Killeen base witnessed a small inch and a half diameter (4 cm) blinking violet
light3 hovering about six feet off the ground and only about ten to twelve
feet away [240, p.259]. They watched the light for about a minute until the
light left by ascending through tree branches. Five minutes later, four Army
men located about two miles away observed a small bright light with a two
to four inch metallic cone attached. The light and cone approached them at
about 60 to 70 mph making a closest approach of about 150 feet. Numerous
other similar encounters occurred on the base in days that followed. On one
occasion, eight to ten lights appeared together with the light-and-cone among
them [240, p.259].
The most remarkable events involve UAPs hovering over nuclear ICBM
missile silos, in some cases while the missiles are brought offline, while not
commanded to do so. The most famous of these events are the 1967 incursions
at the nuclear weapon sites near Malmstrom Air Force Base (AFB), in Great
3This account of a small violet light is strikingly similar to the luminous violet ball
that Mary Kingsley encountered in West Africa in 1893 (Sec. 6.1).
62

--- Page 4 ---
Falls, Montana, which coincided with the anomalous shutdown of almost
twenty nuclear missiles [241, 235, 242].
Even more disturbing, journalist
George Knapp testified before the US Congress [26] that Russian Col. Boris
Sokolov shared information about a similar event that took place at a Russian
ICBM base in Ukraine, where
UFOs appeared over the base, performed astonishing maneuvers
in front of stunned eyewitnesses and then somehow took control
of the launch system. The missiles were aimed at the US and were
suddenly fired up. Launch control codes were somehow entered,
and the base was unable to stop what could have initiated World
War 3. Then, just as suddenly, the UFOs disappeared, and the
launch-control system shut down.
There is an excellent series of studies performed by Larry J. Hancock,
Ian M. Porritt, Sean Grosvenor, Larry Cates, and Ike Okafor of the Scientific
Coalition for UAP Studies (SCU) (Sec. 8.3) dealing with the relationship
between UAP and the 1945-1975 United States Atomic Warfare Complex
[236, 243], and the US military in general [244]. This study compiles the
number of yearly UFO sightings from 1943 to 1975 associated with military
nuclear weapons complexes in the United States. The primary data source
was the Brad Sparks Catalog [245], which consists of incidents that were
officially reported to, and investigated by, the United States Air Force UFO
programs SIGN (Sec. 3.3.4), GRUDGE (Sec. 3.3.6), and BLUEBOOK (Sec.
3.3.7). Only incidents that were classified as unidentified were selected for
analysis. The first part of the study focuses on three study site classes, each
associated with different aspects of nuclear weapons production. These are
(1) production plants for radioactive materials, (2) nuclear weapon assembly
facilities, and (3) nuclear weapon stockpile sites.
It is important to note
that the layout and construction of each type of facility and the resources
available to them were distinct. Control sites were selected to be nearby
civilian population centers and high-security non-nuclear military bases.
The data from four such sites and their control sites, illustrated in Figure
4, demonstrate that [236]
elevated UAP activity was found at all three atomic site classes
and was most noticeable in the earliest facility in each class. UAP
activity began during the construction phase for some sites and
escalated when the site became operational. Elevated activity at
63

--- Page 5 ---
Figure 5: A newspaper article from the OakRidger (12 October 1950) announcing that the
Atomic Energy Commission is seeking information about flying saucers observed near our
nuclear energy sites. This article was published in 1950, which was the year that exhibited
the maximum number of UAP sightings at the Oak Ridge Nuclear Complex (see Fig 4B).
64

--- Page 6 ---
study sites occurred in a “window” between 1948-1951, continued
through the national spike in UAP reporting in 1952, then dra-
matically decreased, never to repeat the “window” levels during
the remainder of the study period.
For example, the year 1950 saw the greatest number of UAP observations
at the Oak Ridge Complex in Oak Ridge Tennessee (Fig. 4B). This is high-
lighted by the October 12, 1950 newspaper article in the OakRidger (Fig. 5)
announcing that the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) is seeking informa-
tion about flying saucers observed near our nuclear sites.
The SCU team’s findings concluded that these UAPs appeared to be
involved in intelligent and focused activity, which is possibly best described
as surveillance. This is an important fact to recognize and appreciate, as the
sciences are usually focused on studying passive physical phenomena—not
phenomena exhibiting intelligence and intention.
5. Physical Evidence
The fact that there have been relatively few efforts thus far to collect
data on UAP in the field means that most UFO/UAP cases rely on witness
testimony. However, there have been some cases in which physical evidence
could be studied afterward [192].
5.1. UFO Crashes
Most people are aware of purported UFO crashes and alleged government
retrievals [246, 247], such as the crash at Roswell, New Mexico, USA, [248,
249] and the often conflated San Agustin Plains, New Mexico crash [250, 251],
both of which occurred in the first week of July 1947 during the statistically
significant increase in US sightings (Figure 1). However, such events typically
leave very little physical evidence, if any, that can be studied [252, 253, 254].
Despite this, knowledge of real crashes, if any, would prove to be extremely
valuable information [255].
5.1.1. The Ubatuba Incident, 1957, Ubatuba Brazil
The Ubatuba incident is one of the most fascinating events that involved
the catastrophic explosion of a UFO resulting in debris that was collected
[256, 257, 192, 258, 259]. However, the most difficult aspect of this case was
the fact that the identities of the witnesses are unknown, which compromises
the veracity of the account.
65

--- Page 7 ---
The incident was first mentioned in an article titled “A Fragment from
a Flying Disk!” in the 14 Sept. 1957 issue of El Globo, a Rio de Janeiro
newspaper [256, 258]. Pieces of a flying disk were supplied to Ibrahim Sued
of El Globo along with a letter stating: [256, 258]
... I was fishing together with some friends, at a place close to
the town of Ubatuba, Sao Paulo, when I sighted a flying disc.
It approached the beach at unbelievable speed and an accident,
i.e. a crash into the sea seemed imminent. At the last moment,
however, when it was almost striking the waters, it made a sharp
turn upward and climbed rapidly on a fantastic impulse.
We
followed the spectacle with our eyes, startled, when we saw the
disc explode in flames. It disintegrated into thousands of fiery
fragments, which fell sparkling with magnificent brightness. They
looked like fireworks, despite the time of the accident, at noon,
i.e. at midday. Most of these fragments, almost all, fell into the
sea. But a number of small pieces fell close to the beach and we
picked up a large amount of this material - which was as light as
paper. I am enclosing a sample of it. I don’t know anyone that
could be trusted to whom I might send it for analysis.
The Ubatuba samples have been extensively studied by more than a dozen
laboratories [257, 259]. The first studies, conducted by Dr. Olavo Fontes
and performed at the National Department of Mineral Production in Brazil,
determined that the samples were pure magnesium [260, 258].
The samples were the only physical evidence examined by Condon’s Col-
orado Project (see Sec. 3.3.7). The Colorado Project used direct gamma
spectrometry and half-life measurement to identify manganese (Mn), alu-
minum (Al), zinc (Zn), mercury (Hg), and chromium (Cr). After radiochem-
ical separation of the elements, gamma spectroscopy revealed the presence
of copper (Cu), barium (Ba), and strontium (Sr) [123, pp. 94–97]. Dr. Roy
Craig, working with the Colorado Project, used the facilities of the Alcohol
and Tobacco Division National Office Laboratory to perform neutron acti-
vation to measure the isotopic abundance of 26Mg.
They found that the
abundance of 26Mg was 14.3% ± 0.7%, which they claimed was in agreement
with the terrestrial value, which is between 10.99% and 11.03% [261].
The paper by Powell et al. [259] summarizes chemical tests performed
over several decades from the 1960s through the 1980s, as well as their work
66

--- Page 8 ---
A
B
Figure 6: A. This figure shows a black-and-white photo of Deputy Johnson’s car, after it
was hit by a UAP, being held up against the present-day location of the event (Credit:
Alex Kormann/The Minnesota Star Tribune). B. (Inset) A photograph of the shattered
windshield of the car. (Credit: Regene Radniecki/The Minnesota Star Tribune).
with two independent laboratories, Cerium Laboratories in Austin, Texas
and ICP and ICP-MS Services in Cleveland, Ohio, using High-Resolution
Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (HR-ICPMS) to examine
the isotope ratios of several elements, such as strontium, copper, zinc, and
barium, in addition to magnesium. The Cleveland lab showed that the mag-
nesium isotope ratios were consistent with the terrestrial ratios. However,
the Austin lab is believed to have been in error as the Mg ratios they ob-
tained, with the same sample, differed from terrestrial values. In this study,
no conclusions were reached on whether the isotope ratios of the trace ele-
ments differed from the terrestrial values [259]. The paper concludes with a
useful discussion of the difficulty of obtaining and interpreting isotope ratios
of these types of samples.
5.2. Collisions with UAP
There have been less dramatic incidents involving collisions that resulted
in physical evidence.
67

--- Page 9 ---
5.2.1. Deputy Val Johnson UFO collision, 1979, Minnesota, USA
One of the most remarkable incidents involves a collision between a deputy
sheriff’s car and a UAP. Deputy Sheriff Val Johnson of Marshall County,
Minnesota, US, was driving on the country roads west of the small town
of Stephen, Minnesota very early in the morning on Aug.
27, 1979.
He
saw a light in the sky that appeared to be the landing light of an aircraft.
He turned from County Road 5 onto Highway 220 to investigate. Deputy
Johnson described the event: [262]
It sat there and appeared to be stationary. But when I got closer,
boom, it was right there, just right now. I heard glass breaking,
saw the inside of the car light up real bright with white light. It
was very, very extremely bright. That’s all I can remember.
Deputy Johnson lost consciousness, and about 40 minutes later when he
came to, he radioed for help [262]
Something just hit my car.
I don’t know how to explain it.
Strange. Something attacked my car. ... I can’t see very well. I
don’t think I’m losing any blood anywhere.
When Deputy Greg Winskowski arrived on the scene, he found Deputy
Johnson’s car perpendicular to the road and damaged with a dented hood,
a broken windshield, a broken headlight, and a broken red light on the stop
of the car (Fig. 6). The car’s antenna was also strangely bent at a 90 degree
angle. Deputy Winskowski asked him what kind of vehicle hit him. Deputy
Johnson replied [262]
It wasn’t a vehicle, Greg. I don’t know what the hell it was.
The car’s clock and the deputy’s watch had both stopped for 14 minutes
before starting up again. Deputy Johnson was taken to the hospital and
treated for “welding burns” to his eyes.
The sheriff went to the County
Commissioners and convinced them that because the event was so strange,
it would be better to keep the car as it is rather than repair it. The car
is currently housed at the Marshall County Historical Society Museum in
Warren, Minnesota.
68

--- Page 10 ---
Figure 7: This figure shows the light-colored residue left at the impact site of the UAP
along the roof of the car. (Source: Phyllis Budinger, Frontier Analysis, Ltd.)
5.2.2. Mt. Clemens UFO collision, 1998, Michigan, USA
A similar collision occurred in the early evening of 27 November 1998 as it
was getting dark when a woman was driving a 1992 Ford Escort station wagon
east on 25 Mile Road north of Mt. Clemens, Michigan, US. She noticed an
intense, white basketball-sized light rapidly and silently approaching the car.
The object hit the side of the roof of the car with a thump. It is not known
what happened to the object after hitting the car, but it was found that the
collision left a cream-colored residue at the impact site (Figure 7).
The residue was collected by scraping the site and wrapping the 2 mg sam-
ple in a polyethylene plastic wrap. The sample was submitted to Frontier
Analysis, Ltd.
and analyzed by chemist Phyllis Budinger (see Sec.
Ap-
pendix A.2) [263]. Budinger obtained infrared microscopic spectra and de-
termined that the sample consisted of car finish polymers, kaolin mineral
(an aluminum silicate), celluloidal material, and metal oxide. Although the
metal oxide was not specifically identified, its spectral bands were closest to
manganese oxide. Aluminum oxide was ruled out. There was not enough of
the sample to perform a scanning electron microscopy with energy-dispersive
X-ray spectroscopy (SEM/EDS) test to conclusively identify the metal oxide.
However, the conclusion was that the metal oxide must have come from the
UAP [263].
69

--- Page 11 ---
5.3. UAP Deposits
UAP landings [264] are often accompanied by damage to foliage (by
breakage or burning) and sometimes leave behind chemical residue. In ad-
dition, there have been situations in which UAP drop, dump or deposit
material, which has been analyzed [192].
5.3.1. Delphos, Kansas USA UFO Landing, 1971
One of the most famous landings occurred on 2 November 1971 at about
7:00 pm on a farm in Delphos, Kansas, US. Sixteen-year-old Ronald John-
son was tending sheep in a shed and heard a rumbling noise like a washing
machine out of balance. He stepped out of the shed to look and saw a bril-
liantly illuminated mushroom-shaped object hovering below a tree about 75
feet away from him (Figure 8C). The object was approximately 10 feet (3 m)
high and had a diameter of 9 feet (2.75 m) [266, 267] (Figure 8D). The ob-
ject’s entire surface emitted a multicolor glow with red, blue, and orange
light. The object hovered about 2 to 5 feet above the ground, and the space
below the object was illuminated with shimmering material that fell from the
object onto the ground below. It was extremely bright and it hurt his eyes
to look at it. His eyes were sore and he suffered from headaches for several
days.
After several minutes, the object moved upward and flew low over the
shed at which point it began making a high-pitched sound like a jet engine.
Ronald temporarily lost his vision at this point, and when his vision was
restored a short time later, he could see the bright light speeding off to the
south-east. Ronald went and got his parents who made it outside in time
to see the bright light in the distance about half the size of the full moon,
which was also in the sky. They described the object as being the “color of
an arc welder”. The sighting was independently confirmed by reserve police
officer Lester Ernsbarger in Minneapolis, Kansas (about 10 miles south of
Delphos), who reported a bright light in the northern sky at about 7:30 pm
[266, 267].
The Johnson family walked over to the place where the UFO had hovered
and saw that there was a ring of soil glowing in the dark. The trees also
had glowing material on them. Mrs. Johnson ran inside to get her Polaroid
104 camera and took a photograph of the landing site. No flash was needed
for the photograph because the light of the ring was bright enough to read a
newspaper (Figure 8A). The glow lasted until the next night [266, 267].
70

--- Page 12 ---
SHED
N
Flight Path
OBJECT
WITNESS
WIND
DIRECTION
BROKEN
LIMB
0
5
10
FEET
2.75 m
3 m
Spray
hν
hν
hν
hν
hν ?
O2
O2
A
B
C
D
E
Figure 8: A. The Polaroid photograph of the ring of material taken by Mrs. Johnson
just after the UFO left. No flash was used as the material emitted sufficient light for a
photograph. B. The photograph taken by the Sheriff the next day (19 hours after the
event). Some spreading, probably due to wind, of the material toward the southeast is
visible. C. A map of the area adapted from [265]. D. A sketch of the UFO, adapted
from [266]. The entire surface of the UFO glowed with blue, red, and orange light. The
space below the UFO was illuminated with a shimmering material that hit the ground.
E. A reproduction of the hypothesized chemistry associated with the UFO, adapted from
[266].
The surface of the UFO could have been covered with an aqueous solution of
chemiluminescent material interacting with the oxygen in the air. This would explain the
blue glow emitted from the surface of the UFO.
71

--- Page 13 ---
The Johnsons touched the glowing soil and described it as having a cool,
smooth crust-like structure as if it had been crystallized. In close inspection,
it appeared to be moist and pitted with small craters. Their fingers smelt of
an unusual odor, and the material had a numbing effect on their fingers that
took days to weeks to wear off [266, 267].
They reported the event to the sheriff and a newspaper reporter. The
sheriff took samples of the ring material and a photograph of the ring (19
hours after the landing), which by this time had seemed to spread out to the
south-east possibly due to the wind (Figure 8B). The affected soil exhibited
a strange water repelling property, which lasted for several months [266,
267]. Ted Phillips arrived about a month later to interview the family and
investigate the event. He noted the strange water-repelling property that
resulted in the ring being covered by unmelted snow [268, 269].
The material was sent to several laboratories for analysis, but given the
lack of funding and resources, there were no results. Dr. Erol A. Faruk (see
Sec. Appendix A.3), who was in a postdoctoral fellowship with supervisor
Dr. B. W. Bycroft of Nottingham University, England, requested a sample
of the material from CUFOS. Together with the resident chemiluminescence
expert, Dr. Frank Palmer, they began to study the samples by recording
fluorescence spectra. Faruk discovered that the ring soil was impregnated
by an air-sensitive organic compound that on chromatographic purification
revealed that it had all the attributes necessary to generate light, a process
known as oxidative chemiluminescence.
He was able to use the soil data
to propose a viable theory of how the ring had actually formed, essentially
confirming the witness’ description of the nearby presence of a hovering aerial
device of unknown technology and origin [266, 267].
Twenty-seven years later, Phyllis Budinger (Frontier Analysis, Ltd.) ob-
tained soil samples from the CUFOS Chicago office [270] and utilized more
modern techniques to analyze the material and add to Faruk’s results. Budinger
agreed that the UFO definitely must have released this material, and she
concurred with Faruk that the material was most probably deposited as an
aqueous solution. Budinger noted that even after being in storage for 27
years, the material still coated the soil and exhibited the same hydrophobic
behavior that the Johnsons observed. Budinger found that 5 ± 2% of the
weight was calcium oxalate, which she suspected was deposited as free oxalic
acid, which then was combined with calcium in the ground. Calcium oxalate
and oxalic acid are known skin and eye irritants, which could explain the
physical effects felt by the witnesses who touched the material. The material
72

--- Page 14 ---
B
A
Figure 9: A. An enhanced Polaroid photograph of the deposit site at Council Bluffs, Iowa.
(Credit: Officer Dennis Murphy, source: [203]) B. Samples (scale in inches) recovered from
Council Bluffs. (Source: [203])
also contained sulfur and/or mercaptan (< 0.1%) of the weight, which could
explain the foul odor [270]. Budinger found that (85 ± 10%) of the weight
was fulvic acid, which is a water-soluble humate. Because highly polar sub-
stances with carbonyl and double bonds would chemiluminesce if exposed to
an ionizing electric field, one would expect that the fulvic acid and oxalate
would chemiluminesce if exposed to an ionizing electric field. Budinger also
noted [271] that insoluble humates were not found in the soil samples, and
that when she “added water to the Delphos soils in a test tube and shook
it up only for a minute, the deposit material coating the soil solubilized and
the soil was no longer hydrophobic. It was normal.”
The Delphos landing has similarities to another case also studied by
Budinger [272]. In May 1995, white circles appeared in freshly plowed fields
in New Pine Creek, Oregon, USA. The area was purported to have a high
incidence of UFO sightings, but none was known to be associated with the
circles, the origin of which was unknown. The white material in one field was
sampled on 20 September 1995. The material was observed to be present up
to a depth of 18 inches (almost 50 cm). Infrared spectra, obtained using the
Harrick SplitPea® cell on the Nicolet Avatar 360 spectrometer, allowed the
material to be identified as calcium oxalate [272]. No other components were
detected.
73

--- Page 15 ---
5.3.2. Council Bluffs, Iowa USA
On 17 December 1971, in Council Bluffs, Iowa, USA, about 11 people, in
separate groups, witnessed an event where a hovering object dropped a large
mass of molten metal in Big Lake Park where it started a small grass fire
[192, 130, 203]. A couple was driving east toward downtown Council Bluffs
when they spotted an object hovering. The object was described as “a big
round thing hovering in the sky, below the tree tops” with “red lights blinking
in sequence around the periphery.”
The object was observed to dump some kind of luminous material. An-
other couple, who refused to be identified, saw a bright red object “rocket to
the ground near Big Lake.” [192, 203] At the same time, three people, Kenny
Drake, his wife Carol, and nephew Randy James, were driving on North 16th
Street when they witnessed a reddish ball at a height of about 500 to 600
feet that fell straight down into Big Lake Park where 8 to 10 foot high flames
erupted. [203]
The Drakes called the authorities, and Assistant Fire Chief Jack Moore
was dispatched to the scene. He described the material as “running, boil-
ing down the edges of the levee. The center of it was way too hot to touch.”
Despite the freezing cold temperatures, the material stayed warm for approx-
imately two hours [203]. Officer Dennis Murphy arrived and photographed
the material (Fig. 9A), which was observed to cover an area of about 4 feet
by 6 feet (1.25 m × 1.8 m) and 4 inches (10 cm) deep.
Mr. Robert Allen, who wrote an astronomy column for the local paper
and who had served in the Air Force, investigated the site the next day
and determined that the material had been traveling from the southwest
to the northeast when it hit the ground. The samples of the deposit were
sent to the Ames National Laboratory at Iowa State University, where they
were studied by Dr. Robert S. Hansen, director of the Ames Energy and
Mineral Resources Research Institute, and Edward DeKalb, of the analytical
spectroscopy section, and to Griffin Pipe Products Company [192], where
they were studied by lab technician Jack Coan.
The Ames analysis found that the material was solid metal and slag: [192]
The metal is chiefly iron with very small amounts (less than
1%) of alloying metals such as nickel and chromium. The slag
is a foam material containing metallic iron and aluminum with
smaller amounts of magnesium, silicon, and titanium probably
present as their oxides.
74

--- Page 16 ---
The inclusions of white ash in the slag were “principally calcium with some
magnesium, again probably as oxides.”
The Ames report ruled out a meteoritic origin, since “in that case one
would expect a much higher nickel content” [273, 203]. They also ruled out
the possibility of man-made space hardware: [273, 203]
Such hardware usually involved alloys of much higher strength-to-
weight ratio, containing high amounts of nickel, chromium, and
titanium. Our first judgment was that the material resembled
cast iron.
Lab technician Jack Coan of Griffin Pipe Products ran two exposures
using a “Spectro-Comp” instrument and spectroscopically identified 18 ele-
ments, including carbon (0.70%), manganese (0.56%), and silicon (0.52%)
[203]. Similarly, Prof. Frank Kayser, of the metallurgy division at University
of Iowa, reported that the material was most likely a carbon steel, and that
“despite the name, carbon steels contain less carbon (about 1.0 to 1.2%),
than cast iron (about 4%).” The microstructure suggested that the material
had been cast, then subsequently heated to 900 to 1000 C, and then cooled
so that it resembled wrought iron [273, 203].
Allen also corresponded with Air Force Space Systems, who gave four
reasons that the material was not man-made space debris: [192]
1. Reentering spacecraft debris does not impact in a molten state.
2. The large mass of the material did not leave a crater or indentation.
3. The visual sighting was only at 500 to 600 feet, where it would not be
glowing.
4. The material lacked any structural indications.
Jacques Vall´ee retained some of the material, and later Garry Nolan
(Stanford Univ.)
with Sizun Jiang (Stanford Univ.)
and Larry Lemke
(NASA Ames) reanalyzed the material (Fig. 9 B) [203]. Using a NanoSIMS
machine (manufactured by Thomson-Syseca), they performed secondary ion
mass spectrometry to determine isotopic ratios. They found that the distri-
bution of titanium isotopes (46Ti, 47Ti, 48Ti and 49Ti), iron isotopes (56Fe and
57Fe), and chromium isotopes (52Cr and 53Cr) were consistent with terrestrial
material.
Nolan et al. noted that [203]
75

--- Page 17 ---
While this study verified the prior findings in terms of elemental
composition and “natural” isotope content, we additionally found
that there was local homogeneity of the samples to the degree
measured, but considerable diversity in the elemental ratios across
the subsamples.
This implies that whatever the origin of the
sample, it was incompletely mixed at the time of deposition.
Despite what has been learned from these analyses, the nature and origin of
the material remains unknown.
5.3.3. Red Orb Drops Flaming Material, 2014, Claymont, Delaware, USA
Around midnight on 29 July 2014, two tenants witnessed about 24 orange-
red UAPs descend on their neighborhood. One of the objects acted as if it
were malfunctioning, dropping a flaming piece of material (Fig. 11A), which
was recovered and studied by Phyllis Budinger of Frontier Analysis, Ltd.
Budinger’s technical report describes the event: [274]
Four witnesses of the event include a man, his wife, and two ten-
ants who rent an upstairs room in their house. The tenants were
outside about midnight on June 29th smoking cigarettes when
they observed multiple orange-red unidentified aerial objects de-
scend over their neighborhood. At the height of the event there
were up to 24 objects. They were silent and floated irregularly.
One of the tenants filmed the event using his SamSung Galaxy
S5 phone. Toward the end, the objects appeared to slowly and
silently move off into the distance in sort of a formation. One orb
was still floating behind the others and acting irregularly as if it
were malfunctioning. It seemed to drop/jettison something that
burnt wildly the whole way down to earth. This was now about
1 a.m. Then the object instantly “darted” out of sight going in
another direction than the other objects. (It went back “in the
direction it came from.”) The ‘fireball’ dropped straight down,
being a fairly windless night, taking about 10 seconds. It landed
four houses up the street.
The yellow flame reached about 2’
[2 inches ≈5 cm] in height, which was eventually stomped out.
The residual fragment was retrieved and kept in a small Styro-
foam container until MUFON investigators arrived.
Fourier transform infrared spectra were acquired using a Thermo Electron
Avatar 360 spectrometer with the Smart Herrick diamond sampling accessory
76

--- Page 18 ---
A
B
C
D
E
F
Figure 10:
A. A photograph of the fragment that fell flaming from the orange-red
orb in Claymont, Delaware, USA, in 2014.
Microscopic examination (using a Canon
A520 digital camera interfaced to a Leica GZ6 stereomicroscope) of the fragment shows
droplets/particulates of material on a fibrous matrix. B. A photograph of an unburned
portion of the material revealing droplets or spheroids. C. A photograph of a burned por-
tion of the material, which illustrates the charring of the organic material. D. Photographs
of the material after being washed with hexane and acetone. The spheroids are more ap-
parent in these images. E. Glass wool for reference. F. House insulation for reference. The
reference fibers appear longer and thicker, and lack the spheroids on the UAP sample.
(Source: [274])
77

--- Page 19 ---
Figure 11: A. A photograph (taken the next day) of the hole drilled by the UFO. (Credit:
Adam Piekut) B. A photograph of the same hole taken in late April of the same year when
the soil sample was taken (location indicated by the red arrow). (Credit: Adam Piekut)
[274]. The infrared spectra obtained from the ‘as received’ sample revealed
that the material consisted mainly of palmitic acid (hexadecanoic acid) and
a smaller amount of glassy material in the unburned area (Fig. 11B); while
the burned area (Fig. 11C) only has a small amount of palmitic acid with
the glassy material, suggesting that much of the palmitic acid had burned
off [274].
The sample was washed with hexane followed by acetone to better isolate
the constituents [274] (Fig. 11D). The component isolated using hexane was
palmitic acid, which consisted of 32% of the weight of the sample. Budinger
reasoned that this fractional weight was initially higher because some of
the palmitic acid had burned off. The components isolated using acetone
comprised 7% of the fractional weight and were found to be a mixture of
long carbon chain carboxylic acids, which may be impurities associated with
palmitic acid.
A trace of an ester-type impurity was also detected.
The
remaining insoluble material was glass fiber with trace amounts of quartz
[274].
Budinger concluded that the fragment did not originate from a Chinese
lantern. Furthermore, she noted that the material has the general appearance
of an insulating material (See Figs. 10E and F for comparison with glass
wool and home insulation), but that the presence of palmitic acid is unusual.
Perhaps the fact that palmitic acid can be used as a waterproofing agent
[275] is important. Budinger also noted that palmitic acid is a phase change
material (PCM) that can be used for thermal energy storage. In fact, a recent
publication focused on the use of palmitic acid/SiO2 composites (with SiO2
in fibrous glass form) as thermal energy storage [276].
78

--- Page 20 ---
5.3.4. UFO Hole Drilling, 2003, Dabrowka, Poland
In the early evening (5:20pm) in Dabrowka, Poland, Zofia Marciniak
was in her yard with her dog when she saw a brilliant one-half-meter-tall
triangular-shaped object hovering at treetop level about 200 m away, over the
field, next to her home [277, 278]. The triangular object was covered with
many red, yellow, green, and blue multicolored lights, much like a Christmas
tree. The object hovered in place for about 15 minutes, and she watched
it with curiosity. After 15 minutes, she had to go into the house to remove
something from the stove. When she returned several minutes later, the UFO
was no longer there. She said that it then reappeared, but the lights were all
white and had it moved further away to the right. The lights then became
multi-color again. The lights then dimmed for about a minute and then the
UFO disappeared [277, 278].
Later that night, around 9:00 pm, Mrs. Marciniak called her grandson,
Adam, and told him what she saw. Adam arrived the next day to see if he
could find any physical evidence of the UFO’s presence. The field was covered
with snow, so they did not expect much. They found a 30 cm hole that was
more than 5 m deep and was filled with about 1 m of standing water (Fig. 11
A), which was surprising because the temperature was below freezing. The
hole appeared to have been drilled, but there was no evidence of any soil
that had been removed from the hole. In late April that year, Adam took a
soil sample of about 0.5 m down inside the hole (Fig. 11 B), and a control
sample taken from the field about 10 m away from the hole [277, 278].
The soil sample was studied by Phyllis Budinger (Frontier Analysis, Ltd.).
[278].
Budinger specifically tested the presence of calcium oxalate, since
it had been found in other physical traces left by UFOs, such as in the
Delphos case, above [270]. Budinger did not detect the presence of calcium
oxalate.
Instead, she found that the soil from the sides of the hole was
mainly composed of quartz, kaolinite clay, and a smaller amount of calcium
carbonate. She found that the control sample was also mostly quartz but
that while there might be traces of other minerals, there was no kaolinite
clay or calcium carbonate. Budinger noted that the control sample should
have been taken at the same depth as the surface soil was probably different
from the soil 0.5 m down [278].
5.3.5. Angel Hair
Occasionally, UAP have been observed to be associated with a sticky
white fibrous substance that floats down from the UAP as if it were released
79
