
--- Page 1 ---
in the other direction of the spectrum, which can provide additional impor-
tant information.
It is extremely important to obtain information about the light beyond
the images. Spectra can provide information about the elements or molecules
involved in the light production, which, in addition to informing us about
the kinds of lights being used, can also provide information about the UAP’s
lift and propulsion mechanisms. Obtaining imagery using a polarizer can
provide information about the polarized light environment surrounding the
UAP. The axis of polarized light can be rotated by strong magnetic fields via
a phenomenon known as the Faraday effect [394], Given that the scattered
light in the sky is generally polarized, one can use the rotation of the axis of
polarization to estimate magnetic field strengths around UAP.
Most UAP groups employ multiple cameras. This is especially important
because it is helpful to record imagery with different kinds of lenses, ranging
from wide-angle fisheye lenses to high-quality telephoto lenses, the latter of
which will require some kind of computer-controlled tracking. In addition,
different cameras could employ different polarizing lenses and be set up with
different exposure times to be recorded at the expense of detailed imagery.
This can help to provide valuable information about the speed and trajec-
tory of a UAP in three dimensions, especially if multiple spatially-separated
cameras are used for triangulation.
10.4. Remote Sensing Satellites for Scientific UAP Research
UAP researchers are now considering the air and space domains as open-
air laboratories, utilizing these vast environments for systematic scientific
inquiry. This chapter examines the role of remote sensing satellites in this
scientific endeavor, highlighting the context, advantages, current efforts, and
future possibilities in UAP research.
Since the launch of Sputnik 1, Earth observation (EO) technology has seen
tremendous developments, leading to a significant increase in the launch of
EO satellites in recent years [395]. These satellites serve a multitude of ap-
plications, revolutionizing industries ranging from agriculture, infrastructure
monitoring, disaster management, security, and defense to environmental
monitoring. Modern EO science is characterized by frequent and systematic
image acquisitions of the Earth’s surface and atmosphere, providing high-
resolution data that democratize the use of satellite imagery and extend its
benefits to various levels of society. Continuous advances in science, infor-
matics, communication, and instrumentation have facilitated ongoing im-
120

--- Page 2 ---
provements in Earth monitoring across various parts of the electromagnetic
spectrum.
Currently, we benefit from higher spatial, temporal, and spectral resolu-
tion, along with an expanding volume of imagery and accessible data, which
ensures continuity for decades.
In the past, access to satellites and their
data was predominantly restricted to major governments and military and
defense organizations. However, thanks to significant technological advance-
ments and the proliferation of commercial satellite services, access to satellite
data has expanded dramatically. In addition, rapid advances in information
and communication technologies have opened new avenues for many more ac-
tors. Tools such as cloud computing, artificial intelligence (AI), and machine
learning (ML) now enable scientists to gather, store, transmit, and analyze
data more efficiently than ever before. Today, a wide range of entities, in-
cluding private companies, academic institutions, and individual researchers,
can leverage satellite technology for various purposes. This democratization
of satellite data opens new possibilities for scientific research, including the
study of UAP, enabling a more broader and inclusive exploration of this field
[396, 397].
Compared to other instruments, satellites offer distinct advantages for
UAP research. They provide a wide coverage and continuous monitoring of
large areas of the sky, increasing the chances of detecting UAP that ground-
based observations might miss. In addition, satellite imagery provides the
unique opportunity to verify, inform, and supplement ground observations of
UAP, especially large UAP, after the fact, especially in daytime over land,
where satellite imagery is autonomously collected and archived. Unfortu-
nately, satellite coverage over the oceans is still sporadic, and night-side
imaging is generally limited as the activity during the night-side portions of
the orbit are typically reserved for data download.
Satellites are equipped with reliable and accurate measurement sensors
capable of collecting scientifically useful data. Their high-resolution imaging
capabilities allow for the capture of detailed images of UAP, facilitating iden-
tification and analysis. In addition, satellites can access remote locations such
as polar regions, deserts, and oceans, which are difficult for humans to reach.
Furthermore, utilizing remote sensing satellites represents a cost-effective ap-
proach for UAP research, as many relevant space-borne systems are already
financed and deployed into orbit. The costs of acquiring and processing satel-
lite images are decreasing, and some data, such as those from the European
Copernicus satellites (EU/ESA), are made freely available daily. The global
121

--- Page 3 ---
nature of both UAP phenomena and satellite observation underscores the
importance of this approach. Satellites have the potential to enable the col-
lection of validated independent data on a global scale, which is essential for
a comprehensive understanding of UAP.
Historically, UAP researchers were already envisaging the potential of
satellite technology as early as the 1970s, long before public access to satel-
lite data and the proliferation of Earth’s satellite coverage. Despite this early
interest, scientific discussion on the satellite detection of UAP has been al-
most nonexistent until the very recent years, with most information stemming
from books or anecdotal reports rather than confirmed data from high-tech
sensors. Occasionally, UFO literature discusses infrared satellite sensors, par-
ticularly the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS). Originally designed to
detect missile launches from the former Soviet Union and China, this net-
work of satellites in geosynchronous and highly elliptical orbits, supported by
ground-based data processing, detects a wide range of heat sources, includ-
ing nuclear explosions, aircraft afterburners, forest fires, volcanoes, meteors,
and re-entering satellites. Preceded by the Defense Support Program (DSP)
satellites, the SBIRS has been rumored to record unidentified objects en-
tering Earth’s atmosphere and maneuvering (unlike meteors). However, to-
day’s context is quite different, as recent official declarations have suggested
that UAP-like phenomena might indeed have been detected by defense satel-
lites. For example, in 2021, the former US Director of National Intelligence
John Ratcliffe highlighted the potential of satellites in UAP research, noting
that some apparently anomalous phenomena have been detected by satellites
[398]. Moreover, the United States Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence and Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2023 Consolidated Annual
Report on UAP emphasized the need to fully integrate the space domain into
the processes of the All-Domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO). The
collaboration of several agencies related to space awareness with the AARO,
including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the
National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), the National Geospatial Intelligence
Agency (NGA), and the United States Space Force (USSF), underscores the
significant role that space remote sensing satellites and technologies can play
in UAP detection and analysis.
Building on advances in satellite technology and data accessibility, re-
cent developments promise potential scientific progress.
The 2023 NASA
UAP Independent Study Team Report [399] emphasizes the use of existing
and planned space observing assets, alongside archived historic and current
122

--- Page 4 ---
datasets [398]. Although current NASA satellites may not have direct UAP
detection capability, their sensors can investigate local environmental condi-
tions associated with UAP reports. As stressed in this report, the commercial
remote sensing industry offers a potent mix of Earth-observing sensors ca-
pable of directly resolving UAP events. Commercial satellite constellations
provide imagery at sub to several meters spatial resolution, suitable for typ-
ical spatial scales of known UAP. Moreover, the high temporal cadence of
commercial remote-sensing networks enhances the likelihood of retroactively
covering UAP events initially observed through other means. However, it is
important to note that high-resolution coverage of Earth’s surface by com-
mercial satellites is limited at any given time, requiring fortunate timing
to obtain observations of specific UAP events from space. Although Earth
observation satellites have shown great potential in sensing technical capa-
bilities, current satellites lack the necessary algorithms for UAP detection.
Artificial intelligence will thus play a vital role in identifying rare occurrences
such as UAP within large datasets, leveraging NASA’s robust data handling
capabilities.
The Society for UAP Studies (SUAPS) has recently proposed a promising
research angle in UAP scientific research, highlighting the importance of citi-
zen science as noted in the 2023 NASA report [399]. The report suggests sev-
eral citizen science projects including a citizen reporting center, smartphone
capture and reporting, ground instrumentation, and the use of commercial
satellite remote sensing Earth observation imagery. Citizen science projects
offer a compelling avenue for UAP research, taking advantage of the collec-
tive power of the public to gather and analyze data. The success of citizen
science projects such as Galaxy Zoo, which led to the discovery of Boyajian’s
star, demonstrates the potential to develop a citizen science project focused
on extracting valuable insights from satellite data for UAP research, aligned
with rigorous evidence-based methodologies.
Following this, it is important to highlight the contributions of the Galileo
Project [332] (see Sec. 7.1.5), which has already begun to assess the feasibility
of using satellite data for UAP detection and characterization. The project
aims to develop software that employs pattern recognition techniques for
the automatic identification of moving objects in commercial satellite images
provided by the commercial company Planet Labs. The primary objective is
to identify objects that exhibit velocities, accelerations, sizes, or shapes that
deviate from those expected from natural phenomena, common vehicles, or
projectiles. This includes satellite data that capture objects entering Earth’s
123

--- Page 5 ---
atmosphere that do not follow ballistic orbits, such as meteors or rockets, al-
though the task poses significant complexities and challenges. Since 2023, the
Galileo Project’s research has made significant progress in analyzing the po-
tential of satellite data for UAP detection. The project has demonstrated at
least two distinctive and easily recognizable characteristic motion signatures
in Earth observation images made with push-broom scanning, indicating that
the proposed method is successful and enables the measurement of the ap-
parent velocity of moving objects using archived information [332].
This
novel method uses multispectral images from push-broom scanning satellites
to detect and analyze the velocities of moving objects. By estimating the
relative acquisition times between different spectral bands, the method ac-
curately determines velocities even without precise timestamp information,
as demonstrated by comparing aircraft velocities derived from satellite im-
ages with those reported by onboard ADS-B transponders. Keto and Watters
[332] applied this image analysis technique to one of the most notorious UAP
incidents of recent times: the flight of a Chinese spy balloon over the US,
which was eventually shot down by an Air Force fighter jet. They also ana-
lyzed imagery of a different spy balloon that passed over Colombia at about
the same time. Using Planet’s SuperDove satellites, they created a baseline
to interpret spectral-band images and provided estimates of the altitudes of
the balloons. These techniques could be used to detect phenomena that are
even more exotic than spy balloons, with the aim of collecting high-quality
data that could be useful in the search for objects of non-human origin. In
future work, the Galileo Project aims to generalize their method to analyze
accelerating objects and to define any limitations. This includes recognizing
objects with uncharacteristic flight patterns, such as sudden acceleration,
which could be of particular interest [400].
It is not only in the US that the interest in satellite-based instruments for
UAP detection has increased, especially given the inherently limited scope
of Earth-based observations. In 2022, the Julius-Maximilians-Universit¨at of
W¨urzburg (JMU) made history by becoming the first prominent western
university to formally recognize UAP as a legitimate subject for academic
inquiry. The University’s Interdisciplinary Research Center for Extraterres-
trial Science (IFEX) expanded its scope to include UAP research alongside
its primary focus on space exploration and the search for extraterrestrial life.
Under the supervision of Hakan Kayal, IFEX issued a research paper titled
“Detection of UAP with a Nano Satellite” in early 2022 [401]. The paper
evaluates the feasibility of using two proposed satellites for full-time observa-
124

--- Page 6 ---
tion, employing onboard preprocessing of data to facilitate orbital searches
for UAP. Visual detection was deemed to be the most achievable and two
satellite versions with appropriately sized buses and solar panels were mod-
eled, which met most of the user requirements. The study presented a tactic
and structure for onboard data processing specialized for UAP detection, re-
ducing unnecessary data transmission to the ground. Such a platform would
provide global data on UAP occurrences, forming a basis for more extensive
research. The document states that a nanosatellite of 12 to 30U7 could fulfill
this role at a significantly lower cost than larger systems.
However, it is recognized that a more extensive project with appropri-
ate funding would be needed to realize the satellite concept. This concept
could also be expanded to larger satellites for more varied and higher quality
measurements or multiple satellites for more frequent coverage, depending
on available funding. As emphasized by military and scientific experts, a
greater understanding of the UAP will be very valuable. With high enough
reliability, the satellite could also be linked to other systems, either on the
ground or in orbit, notifying them of a detection to collect more data when
needed.
In a significant expansion of UAP research, IFEX (see Sec. 7.1.3) has also
extended its efforts beyond traditional Earth-based observations to include
the near-space environment. IFEX’s initiatives exemplify a strategic leap
forward in integrating terrestrial and space-based observations to advance
our understanding of unexplained aerospace phenomena.
In conclusion, the integration of satellite technology, artificial intelligence,
and citizen science initiatives represents a pivotal advancement in UAP re-
search, offering new avenues for rigorous scientific inquiry and data-driven
exploration. Future missions and technological innovations hold promise for
overcoming current limitations and expanding our observational capabilities.
In the coming years, collaborations between academia, commercial entities,
and governmental space organizations, including NASA, ESA, CNES, and
DLR, will be crucial in advancing UAP research. Using the global network
of remote sensing satellites and harnessing the power of AI and citizen sci-
ence, researchers can approach UAP research with unprecedented breadth
7In the context of satellites, “U” stands for “Unit” which is a standard measurement
used to describe the size of CubeSats. One “U” is defined as a cube with dimensions 10
cm x 10 cm x 10 cm. Retrieved from [https://www.asc-csa.gc.ca/eng/satellites/
cubesat/what-is-a-cubesat.asp. (Accessed: 14 Jan 2024)]
125

--- Page 7 ---
and depth. This interdisciplinary approach underscores the transformative
potential of integrating cutting-edge technologies into the study of unex-
plained aerospace phenomena.
11. Conclusion
It is important to keep in mind that UAP are a class of unknown phe-
nomena, and not a single thing [107]. For this reason, the instruments used
to study them need to be sufficiently diverse to be able to provide useful
information about a wide class of phenomena.
We have seen that, as a class, UAP describe a wide range of at least
initially unidentifiable aerial and sometimes undersea phenomena with char-
acteristics that present to the sciences a number of challenges — both in terms
of their physical properties and also in terms of the manner in which they
manifest. The latter is perhaps the key difficulty in studying the phenomena
strictly scientifically, as their seeming randomness or ephemerality (or “elu-
siveness”, as the French philosopher Bertrand M´eheust recently described it)
requires constant monitoring of wide swaths of terrestrial parameter space,
which in turn requires significant resources (technological and personnel) to
be devoted to the research for long periods of time. But because of their
tantalizing elusiveness, the default mode of empirical study has been forensic
in nature. As Eghigian [71] recognized in his recent history of the UFO phe-
nomenon, attempts to empirically engage UAP have been largely confined
to mere forensic cold case chases (as if dealing with a crime). But this is
in truth inadequate to the very nature of the phenomena: if UAP are elu-
sive or ephemeral, then no mere forensic study (which is what we might say
“classical ufology” was all about) can possibly be definitive; only long-term,
transgenerational research programs, such as enjoyed by many research pro-
grams well established and stabilized within academic science now for many
decades, can possibly yield the proper data on which a potential resolution
to UAP can be founded. Yet, when a definite resolution was attempted, sci-
entists and governments reached the default mode of forensic investigations
and — unsurprisingly — often came to the conclusion that there is not much
scientific value to be obtained from studying UAP.
What we have also seen in this essay is that, starting decisively in the year
2021, and with the founding of academic projects such as Harvard’s Galileo
Project or W¨urzburg University’s IFEX, or the UAlbany-UAPx Collabora-
tion, there is a concerted effort by serious academic researchers to transition
126

--- Page 8 ---
away from classical “ufology” — a forensic or forensic-like science which relies
principally on the UAP case report (rather than on reliable data about UAP
themselves) — to a stricter, non-forensic observational research paradigm that
is not primarily reliant on the case report but is, rather, in pursuit of data
produced on and from reliably calibrated, well-characterized and accurately
synchronized suites of instruments. Thus, the decisive historical change we
have attempted to convey and document in this paper is the move away
from the forensic cold case chase such as typifies classical ufology — often
conducted by the “citizen scientist” — to the stricter forms of observational
(Galileo Project, IFEX, UAlbany-UAPx) and experimental / observational
science (i.e. VASCO and ExoProbe) conducted by university-trained pro-
fessional scientists. Only long-term, transgenerational, sustained university
research programs devoted to gathering — and then analyzing — data on
UAP, we argue, can break the paradoxical loop of dismissal in mainstream
science we have seen throughout the pre–2021 history of attempts to study
UAP empirically: UAPs are not taken seriously because they are not studied
seriously by trained academic scientists; but UAPs are not studied seriously
by academic scientists because they are not considered a serious topic for
study! Forensic cold case chases will not break this loop. Only well-funded,
transgenerational university research can. That is a very long game for UAP
research, like any other academic research program, but so far this has not
happened. This paper shows that this, we hope, is changing.
Reflecting further on the history of the conflict between UFOlogy and the
scientific community, we are inspired by the Pocantico Meeting organized by
Sturrock in 1997. Although Sturrock’s account details some of the familiar
frustrations experienced by both the investigators and the academics, the
recommendations made by the panel were both reasonable and productive.
Perhaps holding more meetings with the same planning, organization and
care might be equally productive.
Acknowledgements
The authors express their gratitude to Peter Sturrock, who passed away
while this paper was being written, and whose influence on UAP studies
cannot be overstated. There are a number of UFO researchers who could
have been mentioned along with their colleagues in the appendix. In the end,
both space and time became constraining factors, but we wish to emphasize
127

--- Page 9 ---
that this in no way lessens our appreciation of their contributions. In this
spirit, the authors express their gratitude to Jan Aldrich and Richard Hall.
We are deeply grateful to the volunteers who made the “Flying Saucer
Review” a quality publication for so many years, ensuring that the work
of dedicated scientists and investigators would be recorded for the evolv-
ing research community. We especially recognize the five long-term editors
who succeeded each other in this thankless and difficult task: Derek Dem-
ster, Brinsley Le Poer Trench, Waveney Girvan, Charles Bowen, and Gordon
Creighton.
Avi Loeb is warmly thanked for his contributions to the description of the
Galileo Project and, more broadly, for his efforts to draw rigorous scientific
attention to the UAP topic.
The authors thank Larry J. Hancock, Ian M. Porritt, Sean Grosvenor,
Larry Cates, and Ike Okafor of SCU for providing the histograms of UAP
sightings near nuclear weapon complexes (Fig. 4).
KHK thanks Michael Way for assisting with the Swedish references from
the 1930s.
JT and GT thank their friend and colleague Donna Nardo for her efforts
as an Investigator/Senior Field Technician for the Nightcrawler - Eye on the
Sky Project.
Last, while it is perhaps awkward to thank one’s coauthors, KHK ex-
presses his gratitude to them for their efforts in studying UAP (some of
whom have been doing this their whole lives), for inspiring him to take on
this exciting, albeit daunting, and at times, intimidating, challenge, for as-
sisting in writing this altogether enormous and comprehensive paper, and
for several years of friendship and support through what have been the most
challenging and exciting years of his life. Most importantly, KHK thanks his
family and especially his wife, Emily, for their support.
128

--- Page 10 ---
Appendix A. Prominent Past Efforts and Individuals
Four years ago, the director of Harvard College Observatory, the Admin-
istrator of NASA, the Director of the CIA and the Archbishop of Wash-
ington stood at the National Cathedral to announce that the enigma rep-
resented by UAP (UFO) reports remained an unsolved mystery. Following
such statements by government and military authorities about the reality of
unexplained sightings of unexplained objects in the Earth’s environment, the
public and the scientific community have begun to revise their negative im-
pressions of the subject. Naturally, they now seek reliable information on its
nature. For this reason, reconstructing and presenting the history of research
on the topic of UAP has become critical.
The range of phenomena known as UAP (formerly referred to as UFOs)
was never accepted as a subject of interest in the Hard Sciences. Even qual-
ity studies into the material nature and behavior of reported objects have
been consistently discouraged by major scientific magazines—journals such
as Science, Nature or even Scientific American. Their pages continue to be
denied for such studies, even when submitted by established scientists with
credentials and a history of publication in other areas.
Much of the UAP literature of various quality is now found in the form of
student theses, conference transcripts, and papers about witness psychology,
reporting statistics, medical symptoms, and sociological interpretations of
sightings, but not in formal papers about physics, engineering, or site inves-
tigation of actual cases. As for computer compilations of the many thousands
of reported cases, few sources are publicly available and their reliability is
debatable. Such documentation does exist, however, in the form of research
studies dating back to the 1960s, but it is easy to miss because it had to
be published in rare amateur magazines that have only survived in obscure
Internet archives or in the confusion of online depositories. An important
exception is the professionally curated and edited magazine called Flying
Saucer Review, which was published in England from 1955 to 2000. The
researchers who submitted their results to such an obscure publication were
particularly dedicated and passionate about the subject (and no, they did
not always agree).
In this section, we summarize the research efforts and works from a num-
ber of prominent PhD scientists and academics who studied UFOs relatively
early on. We explicitly mentioned and described Flying Saucer Review be-
cause it is one of the only publications to which many of these individuals
129

--- Page 11 ---
were able to submit their work.
Appendix A.1. David Akers, Yakima Valley, Washington USA
David Akers coordinated with local residents to study anomalous light
phenomena on the Yakima Indian Reservation in the vicinity of Toppenish,
WA, from 1972 to the early 2000s. This activity started in 1971 and spiked
in the late summer of 1972, consisting largely of nocturnal lights very near
the ground or at low altitude. The initial phase of investigation lasted from
August 20 to August 31, 1972, during an intense wave of sightings; many
of the most interesting results were derived from this period. In this inter-
val, nocturnal lights were reported daily in the towns of Union Gap, Harrah,
Zillah, Toppenish, Wapato and Mabton. Akers used optical SLR cameras
(VIS-NIR), a compass spin detector, infrared photometer, microphone and
casette recorder, and energetic particle detector (Geiger-Muller counter) (see
[402] Appendix B). Relying on community reports, Akers deployed his in-
struments where sightings were most recently reported (a “hit-and-run” ap-
proach) and was successful in witnessing and recording events in this way.
Activity decreased dramatically after the first two days of the study.
Akers acquired several photographs of what he described as “large, flick-
ering orange objects” [402], although no quantitative size determination was
possible. An object viewed with binoculars was described as a “sharply de-
fined, brownish orange disc “ with a mottled surface”. This object appeared
to be flat and illuminated the ground with an orange glow. The appearance
and motion of the light phenomena were highly distinctive and easily distin-
guished from those of conventional aircraft. On multiple occasions, attempts
to acquire photographs were foiled when illumination ceased abruptly just as
a camera was trained on the object. The most striking example of this oc-
curred at a relatively close range, while an object hovered directly overhead
[402].
On at least one occasion, a light was recorded in a background expo-
sure, captured when no lights were visible to the naked eye, suggesting
near-infrared emission or visible band emission with a pulse duration and
repetition rate below the perception threshold of human sight. Akers also
noted the possibility that the objects may have been moving in a discrete
or noncontinuous fashion, as suggested by the observed flickering (when ob-
served by eye) and discontinuities in long-exposure photographs; this was
not definitively distinguished from ordinary flashing and displacement while
the objects are nonluminous. During the initial 11-day field campaign, none
130

--- Page 12 ---
of the other instruments succeeded in recording the anomalous events. On
one occasion, Akers and a colleague experienced over a minute of extremely
bright and disorienting light flashes in their peripheral vision, later tenta-
tively ascribed to strong transient magnetic field fluctuations later observed
at the same location [402].
Appendix A.2. Phyllis A. Budinger, Frontier Analysis, Ltd.
Phyllis Budinger is a chemist who is one of the few scientists who has
worked to study the physical traces produced during UFO encounters. She
received her B.S. in chemistry in 1961 from Baldwin-Wallace University in
Berea, Ohio, and her M.S. in chemistry in 1964 from Miami University in
Oxford, Ohio. She began working for Sohio, which was the original Standard
Oil Company that later became BP/Amoco. She accumulated 35 years of
analytical chemistry experience, during which she headed a group that spe-
cialized in spectroscopy and magnetic resonance. She retired as a research
scientist from BP/Amoco in 1999 [403, 404].
In 2000, Budinger founded Frontier Analysis, Ltd. as a laboratory, which
has been involved in analyzing physical traces related to UFO cases, such as
UFO debris [405, 406] and deposits [407, 263, 408], as in the 1971 Delphos,
Kansas USA encounter [270, 403, 404], and angel hair [294], as well as chem-
ical traces related to claims of abductions [409, 410, 411, 412], unexplained
cattle mutilations [413], and crop circles.
Appendix A.3. Dr. Erol A. Faruk
Dr. Erol A. Faruk was born in London, UK, in 1951. While undertaking
postdoctoral organic chemical research at Nottingham University in England,
he requested and received, through CUFOS, soil material that had reportedly
been subjected to physical and chemical changes by an illuminated UFO
observed hovering just above the ground.
This event [268, 269] occurred
in November 1971 on a farm in Delphos, Kansas, USA and left an eight-
foot diameter ring of soil whose surface was found to glow brightly once the
illuminated UFO had left the area. Subsequent field investigations showed
that the ring soil had now become impervious to water down to a depth of
14 inches, such that when snow had fallen later there was no absorption by
the ring, leaving only a snow-covered shape while all around was dark muddy
soil.
After receiving the material Faruk approached his academic supervisor
(Dr. B. W. Bycroft) who, after being described the event and associated
131

--- Page 13 ---
glow, became curious enough to refer him to the resident chemiluminescence
expert (Dr.
Frank Palmer) who became similarly intrigued by the case.
Together they enabled Faruk to analyze the material while Palmer under-
took recording of fluorescence spectra on samples taken as the investigation
proceeded. Faruk discovered that the ring soil was impregnated by an air-
sensitive organic compound that on chromatographic purification revealed
it to have all the attributes necessary to generate light, a process known as
oxidative chemiluminescence. He was able to use the soil data to propose a
viable theory as to how the ring had actually formed, essentially confirming
the witnesses’ description of the nearby presence of a hovering aerial device
of unknown technology and origin [266, 267].
Appendix A.4. Dr. Pierre Gu´erin, Institut d’Astrophysique
Dr. Pierre Gu´erin (1926 - 2000) was a French astrophysicist who spe-
cialized in planetary studies. Working between his office in Paris and obser-
vatories in the South of France (primarily at the Saint Michel Observatory
in Haute Provence and at the Pyr´en´ees observatory at Pic du Midi), he
produced some of the finest photographs of Mars, Jupiter, and Venus in pre-
Sputnik days. He was also the discoverer of a new ring of Saturn and initiated
improvements in optical and photographic planetary studies for space-based
exploration.
A former Ph.D. student of G´erard de Vaucouleurs, (the man who brought
his expertise in planetary and galactic astrophysics to the University of Texas
in Austin), Pierre Gu´erin was among a cohort of French scientists who had
submitted articles about UFOs to the ’official’ academic press and had been
rebuked, with the implication that such efforts would be detrimental to their
career in the rigid mindset of French science. Decades before, Director LeV-
errier of Paris Observatory had fired Camille Flammarion, a fine astronomer,
because he tried to popularize science and dared to speculate about life on
other worlds.
As director of research at the Astrophysical Institute in Paris, Dr. Gu´erin
was among the senior scientists who objected. Finding no professional journal
willing to touch the subject, he turned to the British Flying Saucer Review
(FSR) because—far from being the work of amateurs— it was professionally
edited by a group of able specialists. His first two communications in FSR
appeared in March 1970 and were followed by many others. Here we give a
selection of the most significant ones: [414, 415, 416, 417, 418, 419, 420, 421,
422, 423, 424, 425].
132

--- Page 14 ---
The above selection of papers shows the mind of a scientist anticipating
many of the issues that plague research to this day: the diversity of testimony,
the tendency to pick one set of observed characteristics over another, and the
complexity of technology when used in field conditions.
Appendix A.5. Dr. Richard F. Haines, NASA-Ames Research Center
Dr. Richard F. Haines, Ph.D., (born 1937) long served as a research sci-
entist for NASA beginning in 1967. While working at NASA Ames Research
Center, Haines investigated numerous aviation accidents and incidents for the
United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the United States
National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). This professional work in-
cludes over two decades of “Human Factors in Space” research studies. Dr.
Haines has also worked with the FAA on several projects including "Head
Up Display" (Flight Standard Hqs.). A member of the International Soci-
ety of Air and Safety airline investigators, Dr. Haines has interviewed many
military and commercial airline pilots, and spoken with many air traffic con-
trollers to amass reports of more than 3,000 UFO sightings. Dr. Haines has
been researching this subject now for over 37 years. He has written three
books on the topic of UFOs [426, 427, 428], over 50 scientific and technical
articles and more than 20 serious articles on unidentified aerial phenomena.
We present here a selection of some of his more significant publications:
[429, 430, 431, 432, 433, 434, 435, 435, 426, 436, 437, 438].
Appendix A.6. Paul R. Hill, NASA Langley Research Center
Paul R. Hill (1909-1990) was a distinguished American aerodynamicist
who made significant contributions to mid-20th-century aerospace research.
He obtained in his BS in mechanical engineering from the University of Cal-
ifornia, Berkeley in 1936, and joined the National Advisory Committee of
Aeronautics (NACA), the predecessor to NASA, in 1939.
He worked on
various NASA aerospace projects, including aircraft design, space missions,
hypersonic propulsion, and the Apollo moon missions. He was one of NASA’s
chief scientists and was awarded NASA’s Exceptional Service Medal in 1969.
The historian James Hansen describes Hill as one of two “key members of Lan-
gley’s early space station research.” [439, pp. 275–277], and as the specialist
on configuration and propulsion on the HYWARDS (HYpersonic Weapon
And R and D System) Program [440, p. 368].
Hill is is widely known for his book Unconventional Flying Objects: A
Scientific Analysis, which was rejected by many publishers and published
133

--- Page 15 ---
Figure A.14: Richard F. Haines (left)and J. Allen Hynek (right). Image taken in 1975 at
a conference in Ft. Smith, Arkansas, USA.
after his death. After his considerable analysis of reported cases and noting
their advanced performance characteristics, he accepted that they were most
likely not from Earth. As Hill applied his expertise in aerodynamics to the
study of the phenomena, his book focused on the scientific analysis of the
types of craft and their possible propulsion systems.
He concluded that
UFOs, “obey, not defy, the laws of physics.” [52]
In the early 1950’s, Paul had his first UFO sighting in the Chesapeake
area of Virginia which he reported to Project Blue Book. He witnessed four
objects flying in a V-formation over Chesapeake Bay, near Langley Air Force
Base; that, after being investigated, were classified as being aircraft.
He
had yet another encounter a decade later which he did not report but it is
mentioned in his book [52].
Appendix A.7. Richard Lee Hoffman
Rich Hoffman was born in Jasper, Indiana, in 1951 and at age 4 his
parents moved to Dayton, Ohio. He graduated from West Carrollton High
School in 1969 and went on to college at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. He
transferred to Wright State University and graduated with a BA degree in
Organization Communications in 1995. He worked at a variety of companies
as a Training and Development Manager for a variety of companies (Emery
134

--- Page 16 ---
Worldwide, Miami Valley Hospital, and Ponderosa Steakhouses) and later
transitioned into Information Technology and for the past three decades has
been a defense contractor serving the US Army Materiel Command HQ. he
is presently with Chugach Government Solutions LLC as a Senior Systems
Engineering Analyst.
It was in 1964, timed with the Socorro, New Mexico sighting at age 13,
that Rich began investigating the UFO/UAP phenomena. By age 15, he
was lecturing to churches, service clubs, and more and found himself on
the Phil Donahue Show. He became the “go-to guy” for UFOs in Dayton.
He got connected with Project Blue Book at Wright Patterson AFB and
was provided a hot line number to RAPCON (Radar Approach Control)
at the Base able to confirm traffic in and around Dayton when conducting
investigations.
In 1969, Rich joined the Midwest UFO Network (MUFON) and was the
State Section Director. He served as the Director of Investigations for an
Ohio-based UFO organization called the Ohio UFO Investigators League. It
was this organization that held the 1978 MUFON Symposium in Dayton,
attended by 3,000, the largest in UFO Conference in UFO History.
During the 60 years, Rich conducted more than 1000 investigations, con-
ducted field investigator training sessions, and held numerous additional po-
sitions with MUFON. He was the State Director for Alabama and Mississippi,
the Deputy Director of Investigations and Star Team Manager from 2009 to
2015 and later the Director of Strategic Projects, a role that sought to bring
technology to the forefront. In 2017, Rich left his MUFON leadership po-
sitions and cofounded the Scientific Coalition for UAP Studies (SCU). The
organization has grown rapidly, now close to 400 members worldwide. The
vast majority are scientists, engineers, researchers, military, and many other
disciplines. Rich is also an advisor and supporter for UAPx and the Society
for UAP Studies (SUAPS).
Rich has been on numerous TV, radio, podcasts, and news media and
still lectures at universities and clubs. He is now in his fifth season as an
expert on the History Channel show The Proof is Out There.
In 2022, Rich represented the US along with Ryan Graves for a NATO
workshop in Bologna, Italy. The workshop was focused on the Space Domain
and the UAP as multi-domain phenomena and potential threat that NATO
needs to consider as it develops its policies.
135

--- Page 17 ---
Appendix A.8. Dr. J. Allen Hynek, Northwestern University
Dr. Josef Allen Hynek (1910-1986) was born in Chicago (see Figure A.15).
He graduated from the University of Chicago with a Bachelor of Science
degree in 1931 and then spent four years at the Yerkes Observatory of the
Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics at the University of Chicago,
where he received his PhD in astrophysics in 1935.
In 1936 Ohio State
University hired him as an instructor in the Department of Physics and
Astronomy and promoted him to assistant professor in 1939.
During World War II, Hynek worked on developing a proximity fuse for
the US Navy at Johns Hopkins University’s Applied Physics laboratory,
returning to Ohio State in 1946 as associate professor and director of the
McMillin Observatory. In 1950, he was promoted to full professor and be-
came assistant dean of the Graduate School.
While at Ohio State University, in 1948, Hynek had begun consulting
for Project Sign at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio to
investigate reports of UFOs.
Hynek was initially skeptical of reports on
UFOs, and stated that “the whole subject seems utterly ridiculous.” Hynek
continued working for the Air Force as Project Sign became Project Grudge,
and later remained a scientific consultant for Project Blue Book while he was
at Northwestern University.
Like most people, Hynek was a complicated individual, as he was skeptical
and enjoyed his role as a debunker for the Air Force. In an interview in 1985,
Hynek said: [441]
My own investigations for Project Sign added to that [negative
attitude surrounding UFOs], too, I think, because I was quite
negative in most of my evaluations. I stretched far to give some-
thing a natural explanation, sometimes when it may not have
really had it. I remember one case from Snake River Canyon, I
think it was, where a man and his two sons saw a metallic object
come swirling down the canyon which caused the top of the trees
to sway. In my attempt to find a natural explanation for it, I said
that it was some sort of atmospheric eddy. Of course, I had never
seen an eddy like that and had no real reason to believe that one
even existed. But I was so anxious to find a natural explanation
because I was convinced that it had to have one that, naturally,
I did in fact, it wasn’t until quite some time had passed that I
began to change my mind.
136

--- Page 18 ---
Come to change his mind, he did. Hynek slowly came to resent the “negative
and unyielding attitude of the Air Force”, which never gave the “UFOs the
chance of existing, even if they were flying up and down the street in broad
daylight. Everything had to have an explanation.” Furthermore, “the caliber
of the witnesses began to trouble” him. [441].
Hynek described his complicated relationship with the Air Force and sci-
entists interested in the UFO phenomena in his 1985 interview [441]:
Dr. James E. McDonald, a good friend of mine who was then
an atmospheric meteorologist at the University of Arizona, and I
had some fairly sharp words about it. He used to accuse me very
much, saying you’re the scientific consultant to the Air Force,
you should be pounding on generals’ doors and insisting on get-
ting a better job done. I said, Jim, I was there, you weren’t you
don’t know the mindset. They were under instruction from the
Pentagon, following the Robertson Panel of 1953, that the whole
subject had to be debunked, period, no question about it. That
was the prevailing attitude. The panel was convened by the CIA,
and I sat in on it, but I was not asked to sign the resolution.
Had I been asked, I would not have signed it, because they took
a completely negative attitude about everything. So when Jim
McDonald used to accuse me of a sort of miscarriage of scien-
tific justice, I had to tell him that had I done what he wanted,
the generals would not have listened to me. They were already
listening to Dr. Donald Menzel and the other boys over at the
Harvard Astronomy Department as it was.
Hynek believed that UFOs should be properly studied by the scientific
community. He intensified his personal message when the Air Force closed
Project Blue Book after a 1969 report by Dr. Edward Condon of the Uni-
versity of Colorado concluded that UFOs did not merit further inquiry. In
his 1985 interview, Hynek stated,
the Condon Report said that a group of scientists had looked
at UFOs and that the subject was dead. The UFOs, of course,
didn’t bother to read the report and during the Flap of 1973,
they came back in force.
After 1969, Hynek was virtually alone in the scientific community in sup-
porting the continued study of UFOs. Largely in response to the Condon
137

--- Page 19 ---
Figure A.15: J. Allen Hynek (left)and Jacques Valll´ee (right). The image is in the Public
Domain.
report, Hynek wrote The UFO Experience [442], laying out the three classes
of “Close Encounters.” Northwestern administrators were embarrassed by the
publicity, demanding that Hynek’s Center for UFO Studies be kept separate
from the University. Hynek retired from Northwestern in June 1978, and
moved the Center to his home in 1981, disconnecting the toll-free hotline in
1982. In search of funds and better research opportunities, Hynek moved the
Center for UFO Studies to Arizona in 1984.
It is a sad commentary on American science during the second half of
the 20th century that Dr. Hynek and his team were never allowed to publish
their research in the scientific press, despite multiple efforts. Instead, much
of the fundamental work done during this period found a home in FSR. A list
of selected articles by Dr. Hynek follows: [443, 444, 445, 442, 446, 447, 448]
Dr. Hynek contributed many other items such as Letters to Editors and
comments on current events in the field throughout his life. He was also a
popular guest on TV programs and on local talk shows.
138

--- Page 20 ---
Appendix A.9. Dr. Bruce Maccabee, US Naval Surface Warfare Center
Bruce S. Maccabee (1942–2024) was a career physicist in optics for the
US Navy. He received a B.S. in physics from Worcester Polytechnic Institute
in Worcester, Massachusetts, and his M.S. and Ph.D. from American Univer-
sity, Washington, DC. He worked at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory, White
Oak, Silver Spring, Maryland; which later became the Naval Surface Warfare
Center Dahlgren Division. He worked with optical systems and various as-
pects of the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) and Ballistic Missile Defense
(BMD) using high-power lasers.
Dr. Maccabee’s interest in UFOs began in the 1960s. He authored sev-
eral books on the subject [449][450][112] and has written dozens of articles
on specific UFO sighting reports. As an optical scientist, his analysis of the
luminosity of UFOs [57], as well as his analysis of two UFO photos taken
in McMinnville, Oregon [451] were invaluable . His UFO research and in-
vestigations also included the Kenneth Arnold sighting of 1947 [452], the
F4 engagements of a UFO over Tehran in 1976 [453], the Kaik¯oura New
Zealand videos and sightings of December 1978 [454, 455], the Japan Air-
lines (JAL1628) sighting and radar data of 1986 [456, pp. 17–18], and the
Phoenix Lights sightings of March 1997 [457].
Appendix A.10. Dr. James McDonald, University of Arizona
Dr. James McDonald (1920–1971), a nationally known University of Ari-
zona physicist, is credited with advances in cloud physics and weather modi-
fication research [458]. One of his first influential papers was on the shape of
raindrops [459]. His meteorological work focused on radiation, atmospheric
optics, cloud physics, nucleation, and cloud/weather modification [460].
Born and raised in Duluth, Minnesota, he served as a cryptographer in the
United States Navy during World War II. He received a B.A. in chemistry
from the University of Omaha in 1942, an M.S. in meteorology from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1945, and his Ph.D. in physics at
Iowa State University in 1951. In 1953, Dr. McDonald, as a professor of
meteorology at the University of Arizona in Tucson, helped to establish a
meteorology and atmospherics program at the University of Arizona.
He
later became the head of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics. McDonald
had a major impact on atmospheric physics through his service on the Panel
on Weather and Climate Modification of the National Academy of Sciences
[458].
139
