
--- Page 1 ---
or created by the UAP [279, p. 170][280][123, p. 89][281, 282]. This substance
is generally called angel hair, or siliceous cotton. Angel hair resembles the
gossamer threads used by spiders in using air currents to travel from one
location to another; a process called ballooning or kiting [283, 284, 285]. In
fact, several posited examples of angel hair have been found to be spider
silk [286, p. 97][123, p. 89]. In addition to angel hair, similar evanescent
residues, such as a misty, smoke-like deposit, or luminous haze, have been
reported [287, pp. 19–32][123, p. 89]. Phyllis Budinger (Frontier Analysis,
Ltd.) has studied a number of angel hair samples from different events. We
first consider Budinger’s reports on angel hair falls that were not related to
any observed UAP [288, 289, 290, 291].
Angel Hair Cases Not Related to UAP.
In the case occurring in the northeastern farm country of Colorado, USA, in
October 2005 [291], long web-like white strands were observed over a wide
area (of more than ten miles linear distance along roads) drifting through the
air, hanging on power lines, fences, and foliage, and on vehicles. The material
appeared as fine strands that were combined in a rope-like fashion. Budinger
noted that the strands had very fine droplets adhering to the surface, indica-
tive of a natural ester, which would explain their adhesive properties and in-
dicate their source as being biological. Infrared spectra showed prominent ab-
sorption bands due to N-H (3700–3000 cm−1), secondary amide C=O (1650–
1600 cm−1) and CNH (1580–1470 cm−1) [291].
These strong bands, along
with weaker bands, identify the strands as a protein material. Budinger also
noted that there was a very weak ester C=O absorption band (1740 cm−1),
as expected from the droplets. The spectra were more similar to the spectra
of silk from spiders, caterpillars, and silkworms, suggesting that the origin
was biological.
Three other cases, none of which involved UAP, were similar [288, 289,
290]. One set of samples was found in November 1998 in the carport attic of
John Timmerman, Lakeview, Ohio, USA. The samples had been preserved
there in glass jars and an envelope for several years after the closure of the
Chicago office of CUFOS (Center for UFO Studies). One of the samples
came with a handwritten note from late ufologist Paul Cerney, which indi-
cated that the samples were collected in October 1977 in Los Gatos, Cali-
fornia, USA [288]. The Los Gatos samples were determined to be polymers
containing protein amide-type linkages. The presence of these amide-type
linkages rules out spider silk, as these structures are more characteristic of
80

--- Page 2 ---
caterpillar silk, such as from silkworms and tent caterpillars. Trace amounts
of a long carbon chain ester and carboxylic acid were detected, but it is
unclear whether this was associated with the sample or whether it was a
contaminant. There was no evidence of volatile decomposition products in
the samples, which is not unexpected as any volatiles would have dissipated
after two decades [288]. The material, collected from Sacramento, Califor-
nia, USA in 1999 [289], was similar to the Los Gatos material. The fibers
were made of a polymer containing protein-amide type linkages, identical
to the Los Gatos material. However, the fibers in the Sacramento material
were coated with droplets that were determined to be a natural long-chain
fatty ester-type material. In addition, the Sacramento material contained
volatiles that were determined to be: 2-methyl propane; 2-methyl-1-propene;
2-methyl-1-butene; 2-methyl pentane; 3-methyl pentane; hexane; dimethyl-
pentane; two C6H12 components (molecular weight = 84 g/mol) hydrocarbon
structures (specific isomers unidentified); one C8H16 component (molecular
weight=112 g/mol) (specific isomer unidentified). There were possibly trace
amounts of heavier hydrocarbons, such as two C20H42 components (eicosane
or icosane) and a C23H43 component. In addition, trace amounts of carbonyl
sulfide (COS) and carbon disulfide (CS2) were indicated [289]. The third
set of samples from the California Sierras (USA) collected in November 2001
was similar to the other two [290].
Angel Hair Cases Related to UAP.
There were two sets of angel hair samples that were associated with UAP. In
the first case, Shenandoah, Iowa, USA, on 4 October 1981, a UAP with the
appearance of a silver dollar in the sky was observed in a bright clear sky
at an altitude of about 60◦. The UAP appeared to stand still for about a
minute before it suddenly sped up and disappeared. After this, large ‘ “globs”
of a white fibrous material were observed to be floating in the sky. It moved
in giant spirals and drifted down covering telephone lines, trees, and bushes
everywhere in town, and the surrounding country.’ The fibrous material was
found to be a polymer containing protein amide-type linkages, similar to
caterpillar silk [292].
Another event in Illinois, USA, in 2016, which involved two witnesses, was
described by investigator Bill Schroeder [293]. Witness 1 was an adult male
with a Ph.D.-level education who had been working in the aviation industry
for more than 30 years, designing military and civilian aircraft systems. Wit-
ness 2 was an adult female, with a college education, who was a professional
81

--- Page 3 ---
artist. Schroeder described the event as:
On November 4th, 2016, the Investigator was contacted by wit-
ness 1. He advised that he and witness 2 had observed a number
of Barbell shaped objects in flight over his dwelling. The object
first observed was silver metallic in color and 20 to 30 inches in
length. When first observed the object was at rooftop level or
about 35 feet over his head. The object was moving silently and
laterally towards a small lake just south of the dwelling. At the
time of the sighting witness 1 was in the company of witness 2.
Witness 1 noted that there was no visible means of propulsion
observed and no sound detected. As the object arrived to the
center of the lake it stopped moving laterally and began to rise.
As it started to rise it began exuding a white filament like mate-
rial. The material was very fine and stretched all the way to the
ground. After it had risen to several hundred feet is was joined
by more than 12 other like objects that seemed to be circling it as
it continued to rise. At this point in time the white material was
spewing from the devices in such quantity it looked like rain. The
objects rose together into a clear sky until they were no longer
visible.
The white material that had fallen remained visible in trees for
about 24 hours before dissipating. When witness 1 contacted the
Investigator, he was requested to get samples if possible. The
witnesses were able to obtain some samples of the material. Wit-
ness 1 also sent an email report of the sighting. Witness 2, who is
a professional artist, painted a picture that depicted the sighting.
The material was collected using a clean shish-kabob skewer. At
the Investigators request the samples were placed in paper and
plastic bags. The samples were sent to the Investigator...
Analysis performed by Budinger found that the material is biologically-
derived silk typical of that produced by spiders. Celluloid material (possibly
from plants) was also found, which could have been a contaminant [293].
Another case involves Mrs. Retha Rutherford of Burlington, West Vir-
ginia, USA, who on 21 September 2000 found a strange white fibrous material
in her yard [294]. She and her husband took photographs and tried to col-
lect the material, which turned into a clear gelatinous material. Although
82

--- Page 4 ---
Figure 12: A painting made by Witness 2 of the 2016 Illinois, USA, observation of several
small metallic barbell-shaped objects spewing angel hair. (Source: [293])
no UAP was observed to be associated with the material, Mrs. Rutherford
noted that at 7:00 pm the previous night, she heard a loud droning sound,
similar to a large airplane, which lasted for about an hour. The source of
the sound was not visually obvious. Afterward, the dog became sick and
vomited, and Mrs. Rutherford suffered a severe sinus attack. The fact that
the sixth of the “Five Observables” involves biological effects on humans and
animals suggests that the seemingly correlated illness might indicate that a
UAP was present, although not visually observed,
The analysis [294] showed that the fibrous material was similar to the Los
Gatos material [288] in that it was a protein related to caterpillar silk and was
coated in droplets like the Sacramento material [289]. However, these sam-
ples were unique because of the presence of fatty acid amines. Budinger notes
that the following are ‘specifically “suggested”’: 4-methyl-pentamide; hexade-
canamide; dodecanamide; and N-tetradecanoic acid amide. Other heavier
hydrocarbons were found, such as eicosane (C20H42) and 2-methyl hexade-
cane. Eicosane was also found in the Sacramento material [289]. Budinger
hypothesized that these could be related to the alleged gelatinous material
and perhaps related to the final degradation products [294].
It is strange that these cases of angel hair all seem to involve caterpillar
and sometimes spider silk, especially when, in some of the cases, UAP were
observed, by multiple witnesses, to be extruding the material. Although the
material is known to have a biological origin, this does not completely rule
83

--- Page 5 ---
out the possibility that some UAP can produce this material. This would
make some sense if the UAP were under some form of intelligent control,
since scientists and engineers recognize the unique combinations of proper-
ties, such as the strength, toughness, extensibility, and energy absorption,
of spider and caterpillar silk, and that it is not known how to achieve such
a combination of properties with nonprotein-based materials [295]. In the
following section, we examine a well-known case in which the angel hair was
found to be borosilicate glass.
UFOs Interrupt a Soccer Match in Florence Italy.
One of the most famous events involving UFOs and angel hair occurred in
Florence Italy on 27 October 1954 at about 2:20 pm during a soccer match
between the Fiorentina and Pistoiese teams at the Stadio Artemi Franchi
(Fig. 13 A) [296, 297, 298]. Just after half-time, the crowd went silent and
then roared as the ten thousand spectators no longer were watching the game
but were instead pointing up at the sky watching as several cigar-shaped,
or wing-shaped, objects flew fast towards the stadium and then stopped
overhead. Glittering glass-like filaments (angel hair) were observed to float
down from the objects (Fig. 13 B, C, and D). The game came to a stop as
everyone, including the players, watched the spectacle. The footballer Ardico
Magnini was on the pitch and described the event as [297]
It was something that looked like an egg that was moving slowly,
slowly, slowly. Everyone was looking up and also there was some
glitter coming down from the sky, silver glitter.
...
We were
astonished we had never seen anything like it before. We were
absolutely shocked.
A lifelong Fiorentina fan, Gigi Boni, described it as: [297]
I remember clearly seeing this incredible sight. They were moving
very fast and then they just stopped. It all lasted a couple of
minutes. I would like to describe them as being like Cuban cigars.
They just reminded me of Cuban cigars, in the way they looked.
Roberto Pinotti, the president of Italy’s National UFO Center, was 10-
years old at the time, recounts the angel hair: [297]
... the same time the UFOs were seen over Florence there was a
strange, sticky substance falling from above. In English we call
84

--- Page 6 ---
A
B
D
C
Figure 13: A. An image of the Stadio Artemi Franchi in Florence Italy over which the
UFOs were seen (the two saucers were added by the source for illustrative purposes). B.
A young person holding up some of the angel hair that fell on the crowd. (Source A and
B: FUL Magazine [https://firenzeurbanlifestyle.com/] [296]) C. Headlines of the
Florentine paper La Nazione, which reads “Altri filamenti di vetro caduti su Firenze sono
stati raccolti dall’Osservatorio di Arcetri” (English Translation: Other glass filaments that
fell on Florence were collected by the Arcetri Observatory.) D. Headlines of the Florentine
paper La Nazione, which reads “Cade in Toscana nuova pioggia di vetro mentre si segnalano
ovunque dischi volanti” (English translation: New glass rain falls in Tuscany while flying
saucers are reported everywhere.)
85

--- Page 7 ---
this ‘angel hair’.
...
The only problem is after a short period of time it disintegrates.
...
I remember, in broad daylight, seeing the roofs of the houses in
Florence covered in this white substance for one hour and, like
snow, it just evaporated.
...
No-one knows what this strange substance has to do with UFOs.
Giorgio Batini, a journalist for the newspaper La Nazione, had received
hundreds of calls about the sightings, which occurred in several towns across
Tuscany that day and the days that followed.
Batini went to the top of
the newspaper’s building to see what was going on, and he recalled seeing
“shiny balls” moving fast toward the dome of the Cathedral of Santa Maria
del Fiore. He then went to investigate and found that a wood outside the
city was covered in white fluff. Batini collected several samples by rolling the
stringy material up on a matchstick. He took the samples to the University
of Florence, as did a number of other people. [297]
Prof. Giovanni Canneri, the Director of the Institute of Chemical Analysis
at the University of Florence found that the material was not radioactive, and
using elemental spectrographic analysis, he found that the material contained
boron, silicon, calcium, and magnesium. [297] He wrote that: [298]
Substance with a fibrous structure, with notable mechanical re-
sistance to traction and torsion. When heated, it darkens, leaving
a fusible and transparent residue. The fusible residue is spectro-
graphically shown to contain mainly: Boron, Silicon, Calcium and
Magnesium. Substance with a macromolecular structure, prob-
ably thread-like. Purely hypothetically, the substance examined
in the microchemical scale could be: a borosilicate glass.
Unfortunately, the hypothesis that the material was a glassy substance is
problematic. The lower limit for X-ray spectroscopy is in the neighborhood
of the elements fluorine (Z = 9) [299] and sodium (Z = 11) [271]. This means
that lighter elements, such as oxygen (Z = 8), nitrogen (Z = 7) and carbon
(Z = 6) are difficult to analyze using most elemental analysis techniques
[299]. Instead, if the material was spider or caterpillar silk, as in other cases
that have been studied with more advanced equipment [292, 293, 294], the
86

--- Page 8 ---
presence of the elements found by Canneri could be explained by dirt that
contaminated the silk surface [271].
6. Transmedium Travel and Water
While the main historical and current focus has been on the aerial aspects
of UAP, their transmedium capabilities and relationship with water are an
extremely important aspect of their characteristics and performance.
The three videos released by the US government were taken by Naval
aircraft at sea, and in the 2004 Nimitz encounter case (FLIR 1 video: Sec.
3.3.10) the Tic-Tac-shaped UAP was first observed hovering over the roiling
sea surface, which could have been an effect of the UAP on the water, but
could have indicated the presence of a larger submerged UAP [134, 234]. In
addition, the US Homeland Security video of an object observed over the
Rafael Hern´andez Airport (BQN) in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, in 2013 showed
an ellipsoid-shaped object, which after flying over the airport, headed out
to sea where it dipped into the ocean multiple times and traveled underwa-
ter without significantly slowing down or creating splashes, waves, or other
disturbances [300].
To use a colloquialism, it does not take a rocket scientist (or an aerospace
engineer, for that matter) to recognize and appreciate that craft with effective
and capable transmedium abilities are quite beyond human competency. For
one example, a seaplane is both a very poor airplane and a very poor boat.
For this reason, the observed transmedium behaviors of UAP should perhaps
give us the most pause.
6.1. Historical Significance of USO (Unidentified Submerged Object) Encoun-
ters
Observations of UAP at sea have been recorded in ship logs for several
centuries [1, 5, 6] making it clear that not all UAP can be explained away
as being advanced secret, military, or commercial craft. It is important to
examine some of these old cases and appreciate both their diversity and
similarities to modern encounters.
When we explore the old encounters, we find many intriguing events that
never receive the attention they appear to deserve.
The following event
from 1887 occurred near Cape Race, off the coast of Newfoundland, Canada
[301][302, pp. 442–443][303, pp. 167–168][6]. It reads as follows:
87

--- Page 9 ---
Captain Moore, British steamship Siberian, reports, ‘Nov. 12,
midnight, Cape Race bearing west by north, distant ten miles,
wind strong south by east, a large ball of fire appeared to rise out
of the sea to a height of about fifty feet and come right against
the wind close up to the ship. It then altered its course and ran
along with the ship to a distance of about one and one-half miles.
In about two minutes it again altered its course and went away
to the south-east against the wind. It lasted, in all, not over five
minutes.
Have noticed the same phenomenon before off Cape
Race, and it seemed to indicate that an easterly or south-easterly
gale was coming on.’
This event is interesting because the fireball emerged from the sea and ap-
peared to maneuver intelligently by both moving against the wind and by
changing course. Following this report, in Fort [303], there is a note of a
similar event that occurred on the 18th of June 1845 where from the brig
Victoria in the Mediterranean Sea about 900 miles east of Adalia in Asia
Minor, “three luminous bodies were seen to issue from the sea, at about a
half a mile from the vessel. They were visible about ten minutes.”
[303,
p. 168]. The pheonomenon, which was reported from Syria and Malta, was
described as two very large bodies “nearly joined” [304, p.82–83].
Such events would seem extraordinary if reported today. When one con-
siders that this was recorded roughly a century and a half ago, it takes on
even greater significance. As seems typical of such events, it was reported
once and then forgotten.
Such events have sometimes been explained as
ball lightning. However, such an explanation seems unlikely given that the
objects emerged from the sea and had such long durations.
Another fascinating early encounter with an odd light phenomenon that
reportedly engaged with the water occurred in West Africa in the late 1800s.
This is a puzzling incident that is difficult to explain conventionally. In 1893,
Mary Kingsley was on an exploration of Lake Ncovi between the Ogowe
(modern spelling Ogooue) and Rembwe rivers [305] where she had collected
species of fish unknown to western science4.
4The fish species Mormyrus kingsleyae and Ctenopoma kingsleyae are named after
Kingsley. Ctenopoma kingsleyae is a species of climbing gourami, which are named for
their ability to climb out of water and walk short distances using their fins and tail for
propulsion and gill plates for support.
88

--- Page 10 ---
This area was in the Niger Protectorate and Gabon, about 250 miles
inland from the West African coast.
Kingsley wrote that, late at night,
she went out alone to bathe and canoe on the lake waters. Then she saw
something extraordinary: [306, p. 254]
Down through the forest on the lake bank opposite came a violet
ball the size of a small orange5. When it reached the sand beach,
it hovered along it to and fro close to the ground.
In a few
minutes another ball of similarly colored light came towards it
from behind one of the islets, and the two wavered to and fro
over the beach, sometimes circling round each other. I made off
toward them in the canoe, thinking — as I still do — they were
some brand new kind of luminous insect. When I got onto their
beach, one of them went off into the bushes and the other away
over the water. I followed in the canoe, for the water here is very
deep and, when I almost thought I had got it, it went down into
the water and I could see it glowing as it sunk until it vanished
in the depths.
She later spoke to locals in the area who explained her sighting as an en-
counter with an “Aku,” or a devil bush.
It is not surprising that Kingsley herself thought that she had seen a new
type of glowing insect. Perhaps this was a reasonable assumption, except that
we do not know of any such insect as she described. These objects might
not be USOs in the sense that we tend to think of them, in other words,
as a structured and advanced submersible craft. However, we must keep in
mind that UAP are not a single type of phenomenon. What is important
is that they were luminous (violet in color), unusual, and had the ability to
enter bodies of water. That is, they appeared to be transmedium objects,
whatever they were made of. Furthermore, they appeared to act intelligently
and evasively. That is, when Kingsley attempted to approach them, they
moved away from her.
5Kingsley’s encounter with a small luminous violet ball is strikingly similar to the
close encounter with a small blinking violet light had by two patrolmen at Killeen Atomic
Natonal Stockpile in 1949 (Sec. 4).
89

--- Page 11 ---
6.2. USOs: Unidentified Submerged Objects
Sightings of unidentified flying objects have long been paralleled by en-
counters with unidentified submerged objects (USO). A military forerunner
were mystery submarines, which on several occasions have generated alarm
of military navies and the interest of the media. The most famous series
of sightings and sonar detections took place in the Norwegian fjords from
November 12th to 22nd in 1972 [307]. It was the Norwegian Navy who first
used the term USO. The military and almost all commentators were con-
vinced that it was actually a Soviet submarine, caught in the meshes of
NATO defense, which suddenly disappeared, but UFO researchers noticed
some parallels between the two phenomena.
The connection with the UFO phenomenon has been greatly reinforced
by sightings of flying objects descending from the sky and submerging into
seas (or lakes), as well as observations of UFOs seen coming out of the water
and taking flight. One of the first authors to dedicate a full book to USOs
was the British-American biologist Ivan T. Sanderson [231]. However, Carl
Feindt has compiled the most complete worldwide catalog of USO reports,
both as an online database called WaterUFO [308] and as a book [232].
Richard Dolan has published the most recent study [6].
So far, almost 2000 reports of USOs have been reported and compiled.
Marco Bianchini [309] has suggested a classification scheme based on the
dynamic behavior observed of the objects:
• underwater objects, which are observed and remain below the water
surface;
• objects that are observed entering or falling into the water;
• objects that are observed leaving the water and rising into the air;
• objects that do not enter or leave the water but remain stationary or
in movement (floating) on the surface (usually arriving or departing in
flight).
Long remaining on the edge of the UFO topic, the issue of USOs took on
an unexpected relevance in 2017 when some of the sightings by US military
personnel were revealed, reporting “transmedia objects”. Particularly inter-
esting was the confirmation by the Pentagon press office in May 2021 [310]
that the filmed footage of a flying object sinking into the sea was a video
90

--- Page 12 ---
taken by personnel in the command center of the battleship USS Omaha
on the 15th July 2019, during a complex series of sightings of “unidentified
drones” that hovered at length around naval ships engaged in an exercise
off the coast of California, with performances described as unexpected and
superior to that of normal drones.
Precisely because of the involvement of the Navy, this series of events
led to an unprecedented reversal. For decades, UFO sightings were in the
exclusive domain of the Air Force, but after these events, UFO sightings
and related investigations were entrusted in 2019 to the US Office of Naval
Intelligence (ONI). Furthermore, in a twist, the acronym UAP (which had
replaced UFOs) changed in meaning from Unidentified Aerial Phenomena
to Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena, and even Unidentified Aerospace-
Undersea Phenomena, thus losing the historical connotation connected to
air and flight.
On July 20th in 2022, the US Department of Defense announced the cre-
ation of the All-Domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO) to study UAP,
which, in recognition of the transmedium nature of UAP, incorporated the
phrase “All-domain”.
This was followed by public statements by (current
and former) military members, such as the retired US Navy Admiral, Tim
Gallaudet, who had served as the head of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration (NOAA), that UAPs could pose a threat to the
national security of the United States of America [234].
There are several interesting texts that focus on the underwater aspects of
UAP: [231, 311, 312, 232, 233, 6]. Oceanographer and retired Rear Admiral
Gallaudet recently published a paper that emphasizes the importance of the
underwater aspects of UAP and the difficulty in studying them [234].
7. Scientific Field Studies
There are several scientific studies currently being conducted by aca-
demics, scientists, and private citizens. In this section, we briefly describe
several prominent and notable studies. These studies vary dramatically in
focus and scope, as well as in structure and relationship to the academic and
scientific communities.
To put these current studies into context, it is important to review promi-
nent past efforts and individuals. Although a comprehensive review is beyond
the scope of this article, a useful summary is provided in the Appendix (Sec.
Appendix A).
91

--- Page 13 ---
7.1. Academic/University Programs
7.1.1. Project Hessdalen, Hessdalen Norway. 1984 – Present
Research had shown that anomalous phenomena sometimes tend to occur
in specific areas with reasonable recurrence, and this inspired the creation and
maintenance of Project Hessdalen as one of the longest-running instrumented
“targeted search” studies of UAP research. As such, Project Hessdalen, which
has been led by Erling Strand and supported, in part, by Østfold University
College, has been operating in the Hessdalen area of Norway since 1984 [313].
The results of the research carried out there show prominent recurrent
anomalies in the behavior manifested by the observed phenomenon [314].
This project has demonstrated that similar areas around the world can be
used as a laboratory to study the phenomenon systematically using multi-
mode and multiwavelength instrumentation [315].
The “Hessdalen lights” [316] represent the prototype of anomalous light
phenomena in the atmosphere. They generally consist of multi-shaped and
multicolored balls of light, characterized by a long duration, and sometimes
by high-energy emission. The lights range in size from half a meter to 30
meters. Very short-lasting “flashes” in the sky most often precede Hessdalen
Light phenomena. Sometimes plasma-like orbs overlap with the transient
appearance of apparently structured phenomena: The reason for this connec-
tion is not known yet, but it should be investigated in depth. The established
characteristics of recurrence make this type of physical event very suitable for
systematic measurement campaigns. The project demonstrated for the first
time that the Hessdalen phenomenon was measurable and that, in particular,
the luminous events were clearly correlated with magnetic disturbances and
produced a strong but intermittent radar signature and sometimes sudden
and short duration VHF radio waves. In one occasion, the light phenomenon
showed a photoreactive behavior when a laser beam was aimed at it.
The topic was discussed in 1994 at an important international work-
shop on ball lightning, where the unanimous conclusion was reached that
the phenomenon deserves careful analysis according to the protocol of phys-
ical sciences. In fact, the observational developments of this research have
rapidly evolved. In time, two automatic sensing stations have been activated
(the ‘Blue Box’ and the ‘White Box’), which allowed the acquisition of data
around the clock, including videos of the phenomenon. Over the course of
about 30 years, observers have made it possible to build reliable statistics on
the phenomenon, showing that it tends to appear with peaks in the winter
92

--- Page 14 ---
period, occurs mostly in the time slot from 10pm to 1am, but appears every-
where in the sky and on the ground, and does not follow preferential airways
[314]. Now, the Hessdalen Project is being relaunched with new and more
advanced sensors and research strategies [316].
The main open problems, which make the Hessdalen phenomenon an
interesting subject for physics investigation, can be summarized as follows:
1. The mechanism of confinement of the plasma in a small volume and
without energy losses.
2. The high energy produced both optically and in the radio band and,
sometimes, the long duration of the light phenomena.
3. The constancy of temperature, the self-containment characteristics of
the light balls, and the coexistence of white and red spheres of equal
size.
4. The sudden way in which the phenomenon turns on and off, and the
formation of clusters of light balls, also with characteristics of the ex-
pulsion of secondary orbs.
5. The apparent characteristics of “solidity” shown by some of the phe-
nomena encountered.
Hessdalen is not the only world area of interest regarding recurring anoma-
lous phenomena. Similar phenomena have been reported in locations such
as Brown Mountain, Cape Fear River, Joplin, Piedmont, Uintah Basin, the
Hudson Valley, and the Yakima Indian reservation, in the United States, for
instance, as well as other areas of the world.
The main goal of this research is to try to understand the physics of
the observed phenomena, whatever they may be. The physics of what is
reported and measured in Hessdalen and similar areas of the world could
deal with a natural phenomenon of possible geophysical origin [17, 317, 318]
as well as a possible propulsion mechanism that has nothing in common with
those used in conventional aircraft and rockets. These phenomena can be
investigated using exactly the same procedures as used in astrophysics and
standard methodologies of science [315].
93

--- Page 15 ---
7.1.2. UAlbany-UAPx Collaboration
The Physics Department at the University at Albany, State University
of New York (SUNY), collaborates with UAPx to study UAP through the
collection of field data. UAPx is a federal 501(c)(3) non-profit organization,
cofounded by US Navy veterans Gary Voorhis and Kevin Day, who were
involved in the 2004 Nimitz carrier strike group tic-tac encounter [134].
UAPx specifically recruited Ph.D. faculty in physics to work with en-
gineers and technicians to collect and analyze their own data on UAP. The
Collaboration’s strategy is designed to maintain the quality of raw data, their
chain of custody, their provenance, and their quantitative analysis.
The physicists and engineers in the UAlbany-UAPx Collaboration repre-
sent a broad range of unique sets of skills, including knowledge of radiation
detection, image processing, exoplanets, quantum foundations, and systems
engineering. The members also differ in their opinion on the nature of UAP,
while striving for internal skepticism, introspection, and balance.
Like other efforts, the UAlbany-UAPx Collaboration uses sensors and
techniques similar to those of both the Galileo (Sec. 7.1.5) and the Eye on
the Sky – Nightcrawler (Sec. 7.2.2) Projects. The UAlbany-UAPx Collab-
oration deploys existing equipment in novel ways while working to develop
new detectors as necessary. Just as in the Galileo project, the UAlbany-
UAPx Collaboration seeks diversity in sensors, going far beyond just having
multiple cameras, using an agnostic, statistical-based approach inspired by
particle physics when looking for anomalies, which UAPx defines separately
from ambiguities in its paper. Specifically, the UAlbany-UAPx Collaboration
paper, published in this issue [61], suggests that (scientific) UAP researchers
adopt the following conventions: A Coincidence is defined as a “simultane-
ous occurrence” within the temporal resolution, and spatial resolution when
germane; whereas an Ambiguity requiring further study is a coincidence be-
tween two or more detectors or data sets at the statistical level of 3 σ or
more, with a declaration of a genuine Anomaly requiring, the High Energy
Physics (HEP)-inspired, 5 σ coincidence. The statistical significance must
be defined relative to a null hypothesis, in our case accidental coincidence,
combined with causally linked hypotheses, like cosmic rays striking a camera
pixel. In this way, one can rigorously quantify the meaning of extraordinary
evidence in the same way as has been done historically by particle physicists,
who have established a very high bar to clear.
In general, the UAlbany-UAPx Collaboration strives for openness, plan-
94

--- Page 16 ---
ning for data release after publication, and scientific publications in well-
established scientific and engineering journals.
7.1.3. IFEX
The Interdisciplinary Research Center for Extraterrestrial Studies (Inter-
disziplin¨ares Forschungszentrum f¨ur Extraterrestrik, IFEX) is an institution
of the Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science at the Julius Maximil-
ian University of W¨urzburg. It was founded in 2016 by Prof. Hakan Kayal,
who also heads the center today. The scientific research priorities of IFEX
include space exploration, objects in our solar system, the search for signs
of life, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI), and the study of
Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena (UAP). In doing so, technologies are
being developed to support the aforementioned research fields on Earth and
in space, studies are being conducted on a variety of topics, and case in-
vestigations are being carried out as needed. IFEX also engages in public
relations work to further expand science communication and organizes UAP
workshops. As a result, there are many media reports on the work of IFEX.
The center maintains and expands national and international relation-
ships to advance scientific work in the aforementioned research fields.
In
addition to the voting members from the faculty, a growing number of as-
sociated members from the national and international interdisciplinary envi-
ronment support the work of IFEX; there are currently 21 members.
Among the projects currently funded by IFEX are SATEX, a study on
the use of small satellites in extraterrestrial research, NEAlight, a study
on small satellite concepts for the investigation of the near-Earth asteroid
Apophis and VaMEx3-MarsSymphony, a demonstration of communication
technologies and sensor systems in realistic exploration scenarios with a view
to a future Mars mission in the Valles Marineris region.
An aspect of VaMEx3-MarsSymphony that is highly relevant to this pa-
per is that it includes a UAP system element. In this context, VaMEx3-
MarsSymphony is developing an UAP detection system designed for Mars,
which will be demonstrated on Earth in 2025. An important feature is that
VaMEx3-MarsSymphony is the first time in Germany that a UAP detection
system is being developed as part of a government-funded project. The sys-
tem can also be used to detect other transient events such as lightning or
meteors in the Martian atmosphere.
In addition, IFEX is developing and operating detection systems such as
SKY-CAM on Earth in close cooperation with the Professorship of Space
95

--- Page 17 ---
Technologies. Based on its own earlier work in this field since 2009, SKY-
CAM5 has been in permanent operation since December 2021 and SkyCAM-6
since March 2024. Both systems support the ongoing development of sensor
systems for the detection and observation of UAPs and enable the accumu-
lation of experience that will be used in the development of a more complex
system in the future.
In space, the satellite SONATE-2 was developed and built at the pro-
fessorship.
It is currently actively operated from its own mission control
center and ground stations. SONATE-2 demonstrates the application of AI
technologies in space for anomaly detection. The possibility of training the
system on board is unique worldwide.
This will make it possible, in the
future, to search autonomously for anomalies, artifacts, or possibly even ar-
tificial signatures in new, unknown environments, such as new asteroids.
As part of the KI-SENS project, terrestrial and space-based detection
and observation systems for objects in space are being developed and are
now in operation with the support of students association W¨uSpace. These
currently include an active telescope system that is being further developed
for detection.
7.1.4. SETI Kingsland
Lough Key, County Roscommon, Ireland. 2000 - Present
SETI Kingsland, situated at Kingsland Observatory and directed by Ea-
monn Ansbro, was founded in 2000 and funded by Space Exploration Ltd.
to establish permanent instrumentation for UAP astrophysical research. The
instrumentation was specifically located near Lough Key, County Roscom-
mon in Ireland, where there is a known high frequency of manifestation of
UAP. The instrumentation was designed based on the experience and knowl-
edge about the characteristics of UAP gained from 150 case studies over a
10-year period.
The instrumentation involved the design and development of 11 cameras
using high quantum efficiency (QE) sensors in the visible range. These cam-
eras monitor the sky and are used to control instrumentation mounted on
two optical platforms. These optical platforms, which are separated by 150
yards, are activated when triggered by one of the 11 cameras. The two opti-
cal platforms, which are equipped with long-range cameras, slew to the UAP,
allowing the distance to the UAP to be determined by triangulation [319].
Additional sensors were added in 2002 to widen the range for gamma ray and
infrared detection. However, the key instrument was a unique spectrograph
96

--- Page 18 ---
that has a scanning slit that covers a wide field of view when the UAP is
moving [320].
The operation has detected UAP of different shapes. Photometric anal-
ysis showed significant plasma characteristics both within the UAP and also
in the outer layers of these constructs [321]. In addition to the high frequency
of UAP occurrences at Lough Key, a pattern was discovered to the occur-
rences of the phenomena. Analysis and results, using data from a number of
databases, suggest that this pattern is part of a global phenomenon involving
an average orbital period of 66 minutes with an orbital inclination between
0 and 18 degrees. This raises the possibility that UAPs are technosignatures
[319, 322, 323].
7.1.5. The Galileo Project
The Galileo Project (GP) is led by Avi Loeb of Harvard University and
was established in July 2021 with co-founder Frank Laukien [324]. The goal of
GP is to search for extraterrestrial artifacts in the solar system. One branch
of the project is concerned with the study of interstellar objects (ISOs) [325].
Early results from this work include the analysis of exotic ocean floor materi-
als recovered near the atmospheric entry site of meteor CNEOS 2014-01-08,
the first meteor reportedly of interstellar origin [326]; a follow-up expedition
is planned for summer 2025.
The GP’s UAP investigation is dedicated to ground- and satellite-based
detection and characterization of UAP. The project is constructing multi-
modal ground-based observatories with the goal of developing instrumen-
tation, data processing methods, and software to characterize the physical
environment (the background) and to search for “scientific anomalies” in the
atmosphere: ie, statistically unusual objects and phenomena that resist ex-
planation in terms of prevailing scientific beliefs [62]. As of October 2024,
one of the Galileo Project observatories serves as a development platform and
is in operation, while a second is under construction; a third is in the initial
planning stages; the project is striving to make all three operational in 2025.
A parallel effort has focused on building and testing inexpensive, portable,
instrumented stations. The UAP investigation is described in [62], which
contains a detailed description of (i) motivations for the study; (ii) meth-
ods to determine instrument requirements; (iii) project-level requirements;
(iv) a science traceability matrix (STM) connecting observations with phys-
ical parameters and instrument requirements; (v) a procedure to identify
field sites. Additional papers have described the design of other subsystems
97

--- Page 19 ---
[327, 328, 329]. The project aims to share methods and data products and
has framed success in terms of laying a solid foundation for future work using
modern methods.
So far, instrument development has focused on (i) microphones sensitive
to the infrasonic and audible bands; (ii) radio spectrum analyzers sensitive to
100 MHz - 3.3 GHz; (iii) visible light and long-wave infrared (LWIR, 7.5 µm
- 13.5 µm) camera arrays; and (iv) a nT-precision magnetometer. During the
commissioning phase of each instrument, the project has used aircraft ADS-B
transponder telemetry to calibrate, characterize, and thoroughly understand
the in situ performance, including detection volumes and efficiency, allowing
the evaluation and refinement of measurements.
To characterize and understand the signatures of ordinary phenomena
and ordinary aerial objects, an aerial and environmental census will be con-
ducted both during and after the commissioning phase. The GP team relies
on a mixture of traditional methods (including manual review) and machine
learning methods for novel class discovery (previously unknown aerial objects
or phenomena) and outlier detection. These methods are being developed
using instrument-acquired data (labeled and unlabeled) as well as synthetic
data. Confirmed outliers and novel classes will be used to motivate refine-
ments of instrumentation and will be targeted in future observations as part
of hypothesis-driven investigations.
Aerial object detection in camera imagery has been accomplished using
a combination of traditional methods and machine learning models. In the
commissioning phase of its all-sky infrared camera array, the GP has amassed
a database of ∼5 × 105 aerial objects and their reconstructed 2-D trajecto-
ries in angular coordinates (mostly aircraft, birds, insects, and leaves) [330].
These tracks have been the focus of efforts for novel class discovery and outlier
analysis. The team has also developed and deployed lightweight, portable,
multimodal, instrumented field stations with GPS-synchronized clocks, and
has used these to acquire videos for deriving triangulated trajectories of noc-
turnal lights (e.g., aircraft, meteors, satellites) [331]. Acoustic instrumenta-
tion efforts have focused on (i) collecting a labeled database of sounds asso-
ciated with specific aircraft, trajectories, and environmental conditions; (ii)
developing machine learning models to recognize signatures of known craft;
(iii) a direction-of-arrival (DOA) instrument using an array of five audible
band microphones [327]. To date, magnetometry efforts have focused almost
exclusively on calibration and understanding signals that deviate from the
published data of a nearby United States Geological Survey (USGS) magnetic
98

--- Page 20 ---
observatory, a member of the International Real-Time Magnetic Observatory
Network (INTERMAGNET). Notable events to date include video capture
of a Falcon 9 rocket 2nd stage reentry and magnetometer recordings of the
10 May 2024 geomagnetic storm.
The GP is also developing methods to detect unusual aerial objects in
satellite images of the Earth’s surface and atmosphere. So far, these efforts
have focused on detecting unusual objects in ∼4 m resolution photographs
acquired by Planet Labs [332]. The GP has demonstrated successful detec-
tion of objects in motion by locating features that occur along a track in
multiple color-band images that were acquired asynchronously. The mea-
sured apparent displacements that occur as a consequence of object speed
and parallax can be used to identify a set of degenerate solutions for velocity
and elevation. Aerial objects for which this set of solutions reside entirely
outside the expected performance envelope can be classified as unusual. A
shape analysis will also be used to provide further information. Additional
details are described in Section 10.4.
7.1.6. VASCO
The Vanishing and Appearing Sources during a Century of Observations
(VASCO) project [333, 334], led by Beatriz Villarroel, is focused on studying
and comparing astronomical photographic plates taken over the last century
to identify transient objects. This project has the unique advantage of in-
volving a century’s worth of trusted professional astronomical data, much
of which is free of contamination by artificial satellites, which did not exist
prior to the launch of Sputnik-I in October of 1957. In addition to providing
an opportunity to observe the variability of astronomical objects on scales
ranging from decades down to hours, this project has the capability of iden-
tifying photographic evidence of unidentified aerospace phenomena in the
near-Earth space environment.
In June 2021, the VASCO project published a paper featuring a serendip-
itous discovery made while searching for vanishing stars. The team had been
comparing images from the early 1950s with modern images of the sky and
found a peculiar image from April 1950, where nine stars appear in and out
within an exposure time, 50 minutes [335]. In a previous image taken half
an hour earlier, the nine stars were not there and the nine stars were never
seen again. The team used the world’s largest optical telescope, the Gran
Telescopio Canarias (GTC) 10.4 meter telescope, and did deep photometry,
without finding any counterparts to the nine mysterious transients. No as-
99
