
--- Page 1 ---
an incoming object shaped like an airplane fuselage with no wings or tail
[93, 67]. They estimated the object to be about 100 feet in length with a
barrel diameter about three times as large as a Boeing B-29 Superfortress.
The object passed near the plane, slightly higher and to the right angling
gently upward and away [67].
Unexplained sightings, such as these, were complicated by the fact that
the Brigadier General Erik H. Nelson (who, at the time, was a technical
advisor for Scandinavian Airlines) revealed that there had been unidentified
aircraft observed in Scandinavia again, which were not only rocket-shaped,
but also in the shape of discs and spheres [94]. When the Americans inquired
about this, the Swedish Air Intelligence Service stated that [74]
some reliable and fully technically qualified people have reached
the conclusion that “these phenomena are obviously the result of
a high technical skill which cannot be credited to any presently
known culture on earth.”
In November 1948, Project SIGN was required to produce an estimate
of the situation, which stated that there was no indication that these UFOs
were of domestic origin, and that while such objects could be made to fly,
the power required was not attainable with current technology. The memo
went on to advance the extra-terrestrial hypothesis while indicating that
there was no tangible evidence for this possibility [67]. The Pentagon pushed
back against these suggestions. The original estimate was ordered destroyed,
although records were kept [95, 67]. It should be noted that Eghigian casts
doubt on this narrative [71], pointing out that there is little to no evidence
of such a memo.
The final SIGN report claimed to explain most reports [79]. Moreover,
the final report did not include the extraterrestrial hypothesis, the main
contributors to Project SIGN were reassigned, and the project name was
changed to Project Grudge [67].
3.3.5. Green Fireballs and Project Twinkle
In late November of 1948, residents of Albuquerque, New Mexico started
reporting green fireballs, streaks, or flares in the sky. At first, Air Force
Intelligence at Kirtland AFB assumed that these were flares, but the number
of reports and the brilliance of the lights began to increase. On 5 December
at 9:27pm, Captain Goede and his crew, flying a US Air Force C47 transport
plane, saw a bright green ball of fire rise from the eastern slopes of the Sandia
20

--- Page 2 ---
mountains, arch upward, and then level out [96]. As they had seen a similar
fireball twenty-two minutes earlier near Las Vegas, New Mexico, they decided
to report the sightings.
Not long thereafter, at 9:35pm, the pilot of a DC-3, Pioneer Airlines
Flight 63, contacted Kirtland AFB reporting a large fireball just east of Las
Vegas, New Mexico. The pilot and co-pilot first saw the fireball approaching
their plane head-on as they were heading westbound toward Las Vegas, New
Mexico. They saw that it was too low and had too flat of a trajectory to
be a meteor, and watched the object change colors from orange red to green
as it approached their plane. As the fireball approached, its apparent size
was larger than that of the full moon. Fearing a head-on collision, the pilot
took evasive maneuvers and the fireball began descending and became fainter
until it disappeared [96].
The military became concerned about the number of sightings and their
proximity to sensitive nuclear installations and began an investigation. Given
the similarity of the reports to what one expects from meteors, Kirtland In-
telligence Officers contacted astronomer and meteor pioneer, Lincoln La Paz
from the University of New Mexico. Beginning with the events of Decem-
ber 5th, La Paz began locating and interviewing witnesses with the aim of
reconstructing the trajectories of the fireballs.
If they were meteors, the
trajectories would lead him to impact sites where the meteoritic material
could be collected. La Paz estimated that eight separate green fireballs were
witnessed that evening. Despite plotting their trajectories and estimating
the positions of the impact sites, no meteorites or evidence of impacts were
ever found, leading La Paz to suspect that these green fireballs were not
meteorites.
Throughout December 1948 and January 1949, the number of green fire-
balls observed in New Mexico continued to increase and were observed by
Air Intelligence Officers at Kirtland AFB, Air Defense Command officials, a
number of distinguished scientists at Los Alamos, as well as La Paz, himself.
In addition, astronomer Clyde Tombaugh, the discoverer of Pluto (and more
than 15 asteroids), had observed a total of three green fireballs during the
wave, which he claimed “were unusual in behavior compared to normal green
fireballs” [97].
In mid-February 1949, a conference was organized with Joseph Kaplan
(an expert on upper-atmospheric physics) [98], Edward Teller (of hydrogen
bomb fame) and La Paz, along with military officials and scientists from Los
Alamos [96]. The conference was convened to discuss the nature of the green
21

--- Page 3 ---
fireballs—there was no need to discuss the reality of the phenomenon, since
most everyone involved had seen a green fireball. La Paz insisted that the
green fireballs could not be meteors because their trajectories were too flat,
their color too green, and that no meteoritic material had been recovered.
Teller maintained that since no sound, or sonic boom, was associated with
them, they could not be meteors but must be some kind of electro-optical
effect [67] 1. The conference ended with the consensus being that the green
fireballs were some kind of natural non-meteoritic phenomenon.
By spring 1949, because of ongoing concerns, Kaplan was sent to New
Mexico with the news that a network of observation posts would be es-
tablished along with an effort to sample the air following a green fireball
overflight [100]. While it is not clear that this plan was fully enacted, on
June 24th, a green fireball flyover provided the opportunity for air sampling,
which was successful. La Paz found the sample to be abnormal as it con-
tained copper, which could explain the green glow of the fireball. However,
meteors have almost no copper, and this suggested to La Paz that these were
manufactured missiles of some kind [67]. The investigation was then passed
to the Air Force’s Cambridge Research Laboratory [96, 67].
Another meeting involving La Paz, Kaplan, Teller, and Stanislaw Ulam,
along with military officials and FBI agents, was arranged in Los Alamos
on October 14. Again, there was no agreed upon explanation for the green
fireballs, but their concentration around Los Alamos and Sandia Labs was not
only not natural, but ominous. By February 1950, they established Project
Twinkle to study the green fireballs [96, 67].
Project Twinkle aimed to employ three 35-mm cinetheodolite stations
near White Sands, New Mexico, but an insufficient budget and unavailability
of cinetheodolites resulted in only one station being constructed, which was
moved around, always missing the phenomenon. Project Twinkle concluded
in 1951 having learned essentially nothing [101]. However, the final project
report appears to gloss over an important set of observations [102, 103].
Specifically, the details of the report of four objects photographed during the
test of an MX 776A missile on April 27, 1950 [104] are missing, which states:
...
1It should be noted that this is the expected reasoning from a physicist who is not
expecting extremely anomalous phenomena. Physicists used similar reasoning in these
two papers: [99, 60]
22

--- Page 4 ---
2. Film from station P10 was read, resulting in azimuth[sic] and
elevation angles being recorded on four objects. In addition, size
of image on film was recorded.
3. From this information, together with a single azimuth angle
from station M7, the following conclusions were drawn:
a. The objects were at an altitude of approximately 150,000 feet.
b. The objects were over the Holloman Range between the base
and Tularosa Peak.
c. The objects were approximately 30 feet in diameter.
d. The objects were traveling at an undeterminable, yet high,
speed.
Instead, the Project Twinkle Final Report merely states [101]:
Some photographic activity occurred on 27 April and 24 May, but
simultaneous sightings by both cameras were not made, so that
no information was gained.
La Paz continued to believe that these green fireballs were not natural.
Ruppelt, having interviewed La Paz, writes [96]:
Then there were other points of dissimilarity between a meteor
and the green fireballs. The trajectory of the fireballs was too
flat. La Paz explained that a meteor doesn’t necessarily have to
arch down across the sky, its trajectory can appear to be flat, but
not as flat as that of the green fireballs. Then there was the size.
Almost always such descriptive words as “terrifying,” “as big as
the moon,” and “blinding” had been used to describe the fireballs.
Meteors just aren’t this big and bright.
...
A meteorite[sic] is accompanied by sound and shock waves that
break windows and causes cattle to stampede. Yet in every case
of a green fireball sighting, the observers reported that they did
not hear any sound.
...
But the biggest mystery of all was the fact that no particles of a
green fireball had ever been found. If they were meteorites, La
Paz was positive that he would have found one. He’d missed very
few times in the cases of known meteorites.
23

--- Page 5 ---
It is doubtful that the green fireballs were meteors for another important
reason. Meteor storms are global events that occur when the Earth, in its
orbit, passes through an orbiting cometary or asteroid debris cloud. As such,
if the green fireballs were meteors, then they should have been observed
worldwide — certainly not limited to a handful of sensitive nuclear sites in
New Mexico, and the meteors would have only lasted a few days — not
months.
Although Project Twinkle was conceived as a data collection effort, it was
both underfunded and haphazard in its design. Moving the single camera
used in the study meant that the camera kept missing the phenomenon. As
a result, it provided virtually no useful information about the phenomena it
was intended to study.
The UFO activity at both the White Sands Missile Base and Los Alamos
in New Mexico resulted in the formation of informal groups of scientists, in
both places, to study the phenomena [67]. One member wrote: [105]
...a group of our physicists (who) set up watches to observe and
record the mysterious green fireballs. As watching progressed, we
armed ourselves with a camera and grating to try to photograph
the spectrum of the light. We set up a Doppler meteor detector
... and a low frequency electromagnetic listening and recording
device.
The group consisted of ten physicists, many of whom had witnessed these
objects themselves [67]. Fred Kalbach described their efforts to James Mc-
Donald, an atmospheric physicist at the University of Arizona who studied
UFOs, saying: [106]
The sightings were so numerous that a group of us staff members
produced a reporting form and encouraged those who saw these
events to fill out the checklist. Over a period of say three months,
we collected possibly 50 reports.
...
I have personally attempted to follow up on some of the reports
of others only to conclude that there are many things which com-
petent observers have seen which cannot be explained in terms of
our present knowledge.
Such efforts eventually paid off. In October 1949, Harley Marshall had
just finished his work at the dome at Mt. Palomar Observatory in California
24

--- Page 6 ---
[67]. He was driving to the powerhouse to check the weather instrumenta-
tion and the Naval Electronic Laboratory (NEL) Geiger counter, when he
noticed nine highly reflective circular objects flying in a group of three tri-
angular formations. They moved at great speed, but without sound or signs
of exhaust. When Marshall arrived at the powerhouse, he noticed that the
Geiger counter had risen to a sharp peak and had since been declining. He
wondered whether the recorded radiation spike was due to the flyover that
he observed [67].
To this day, it is not clear what the green fireballs were or if they had any
relation to the cylinders, discs, or spheres that had been widely observed.
As such, they are an example of the fact that UAPs are a class of unknown
phenomena, and not a single thing [107]. For this reason, the instruments
used to study them need to be sufficiently diverse to be able to provide useful
information about a wide class of phenomena.
Moreover, it is a widely held belief that scientists, astronomers in partic-
ular, do not witness UFOs or UAP. The events and efforts discussed in this
section make it clear that this is not only untrue, but many of the respected
scientists who witnessed these phenomena made serious attempts to study
them. In addition to illustrating both the seriousness and pervasiveness of
these phenomena, knowledge of these events is critical, as they inform us of
what types of equipment have been useful in studying UAP.
3.3.6. Project Grudge
Project Grudge replaced Project SIGN in April 1949. In most ways, it was
a continuation of Project SIGN, with the focus on collecting and analyzing
UFO reports. However, Project Grudge was assigned new personnel along
with an understanding to not consider the extra-terrestrial hypothesis.
In December 1949, Donald Keyhoe, a well-known aviation writer and re-
tired major, published an article on UFOs based on his private studies of
UFOs and his military contacts. In this article, Keyhoe claimed that UFOs
were alien spacecraft and that the US government was keeping that infor-
mation secret. Since the Air Force was more concerned about the public’s
perceptions, to demonstrate that UFOs were not a serious concern, they
reduced Project Grudge to a routine intelligence effort [79].
To highlight the Air Force’s hostility to UFO cases, it is worth discussing
a sighting that occurred in May 1949 on the Rogue River in Oregon [108,
109][110, pp. 863-879, 890-3][67]. A group of six adults were on vacation in
a boat on the river when at about 5pm (it was still daylight) they observed a
25

--- Page 7 ---
Figure 3: An illustration of the disk observed by five adults while boating on the Rogue
River in Oregon in May 1949. The observers included two researchers who worked for
the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA); one of whom worked at the
Supersonic Wind Tunnel at Moffett Field, California, and the other who was a draftsman;
both of whom were familiar with aerodynamic design. Illustration from Project Blue Book
Special Report 14, page 86 [108, 109][110, pp. 863-879, 890-3].
26

--- Page 8 ---
round object that looked like a mirror on edge. The witnesses had binoculars
that were passed around so that they all observed the object well. The object
had a diameter of about 25–30 feet, was flat on the bottom with an edge like
a coin, and had a slightly convex top with what appeared to be a fin-like
protrusion on one end (Fig. 3). Two of the witnesses worked for the National
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA, which was the predecessor of
NASA). Mr. Don Heaphy was a mechanic at the 1×3 - foot Supersonic Wind
Tunnel at the Ames Laboratory at Moffett Field, California, and the other
was Mr. Gilbert Rivera, a draftsman in the Drafting Section of NACA at
Ames Laboratory [108]. As such, both witnesses were uniquely familiar with
aerodynamic designs. The object was observed to accelerate from a “leisurely
pace” to jet speeds, but there was no jet stream or contrails, and the object
made no noise. At one point the object just turned, but the observers noted
that it was strange how the object did not need to bank to accomplish the
turn.
The project report card summarized the event, stating: “No data
presented to indicate object could have NOT been an aircraft. Conclusion:
AIRCRAFT” [67].
3.3.7. Project Blue Book
Project Blue Book took over in March 1952, where Project Grudge left
off. A brief period of serious investigation was instituted under its new head,
Captain Edward Ruppelt [96], but eventually, as with Project Grudge, the
success metrics appear to have focused on explaining away sightings as pro-
saic and reassuring the public that there was nothing to worry about. Sight-
ings and project documents were collected and archived. They are available
under the Freedom of Information Act at the National Archives [111].
The Robertson Panel.
Swords et al. [67] describe the CIA’s involvement with UFOs as being both
controversial and inadequately documented. By spring of 1952, before the
1952 summer “flap” of increased UFO activity, Frederick Durant from the
CIA’s Office of Scientific Intelligence (CIA-OSI) collected information from
the Pentagon UFO Chief Dewey Fournet and Project Blue Book Chief Ed-
ward Ruppelt on how the US Air Force was handling the UFO problem. As
a result, when after the Washington D.C. sightings in late July [112], Pres-
ident Truman requested that the CIA be involved, the CIA was prepared
with recommendations to the President the next day [113]. Swords et al.
[67] detail the reconstructed efforts of the CIA in mid-1952 and summarize
27

--- Page 9 ---
the situation, in part, as such:
• The CIA criticized the Air Force for poorly handling the UFO problem
by trying to find prosaic explanations on a case-by-case basis, rather
than trying to understand the phenomenon as a whole.
• The CIA determined that the phenomenon was “frequent and world-
wide” with about 20% of the cases considered unexplained.
• Consultation with three scientists led them to believe that the solution
to the UFO problem was “just beyond the frontiers of present knowl-
edge.” There was some thought that the concentration of radioactive
waste could play a role, suggesting that they may have been aware of
the higher density of sightings at places, such as nuclear sites, such as
Oak Ridge National Laboratories. The perception was that the phe-
nomenon was interesting and worthy of scientific study.
• There was concern of hysterical panic in America and it was thought
that there should be a national policy on what the public could be told
to minimize panic.
By November 1952, the CIA-OSI group led by Assistant Director Chad-
well had come to the conclusion that there should be a UFO research project
focused on determining what UFOs were [114, 115, 116]. It was obvious to
them that something important was going on, which required immediate at-
tention, especially because many UFO sightings involved objects at very high
altitudes and over sensitive military installations. CIA Director Smith and
Assistant Director Chadwell decided to produce a National Security Coun-
cil Intelligence Directive (NSCID) that would have the CIA-OSI create a
scientific study of UFOs.
However, behind the scenes, two things were happening [67]. A group of
MIT scientists at Lincoln Lab had become interested in UFOs because they
demonstrated how poorly we were at detecting potentially dangerous airspace
violations. Their lead scientist, physicist Julius Stratton, met with Chadwell
to offer their services in taking on all UFO case analyses to aim at better
understanding both the phenomenon and national defense. This incursion
by a non-Air Force-controlled scientific group appears to have alarmed the
Air Force’s Pentagon divisions, and the USAF began countermeasures.
Exactly how the USAF managed this is not clear, as it is the poorest doc-
umented area, but it did happen [67]. Due to Air Force influence, the thrust
28

--- Page 10 ---
of the Chadwell panel meeting was altered dramatically from a workshop-like
affair to judge the needs and scientific value of researching UFO incursions to
an assessment of the phenomenon’s national security implications only. This
is why science-oriented personnel, such as J. Allen Hynek, Major Dewey
Fournet of the Pentagon, Captain Ruppelt of Project Blue Book, and the
photo-analysists of the Navy’s photo-interpreting group came to the meeting
loaded with evidence-oriented materials and left stunned that nothing they
said was “heard”. Hynek noted: [117]
... one could argue that they deliberately chose high scientific-
establishment men, men who were terribly terribly busy, could
obviously not spend a lot of time examining things and had no
intention of doing their homework, but of simply passing judg-
ment on the basis of their previous scientific experience in, and
only in, their present scientific framework.
Nothing of scientific value came from the committee, which lived for-
ward in history as “The Robertson Panel”, under the name of the chairman,
Howard P. Robertson, who Harvard astronomer Donald Menzel (Sec. Ap-
pendix A.11), friend of Robertson and Panel member, described as biased
against the topic from the beginning [118].
The Panel did have recommendations. They were to reduce the serious-
ness with which people took the subject, to take the excitement and belief
out of it, and to do it because people reacted badly to such events and that
foreign adversaries could use that emotional weakness in the public (and even
some members of the military) to their aggressive advantage. As a result, the
Air Force immediately changed policies in accordance with these recommen-
dations. The final report had two areas of focus: dismissing the phenomenon
and making recommendations on how to control the public perception of the
phenomenon [67].
In December 1953, Joint Army-Navy-Air Force Regulation number 146
(JANAP 146) made it a crime for military personnel to discuss classified
UFO reports with unauthorized personnel [119]. In February 1953, the Air
Force issued Regulation 200-2 [120], which forced base commanders to only
discuss UFO reports that had been explained, while classifying those that
had not been explained. In this way, the public perception was that the
UFO phenomenon could be easily explained.
29

--- Page 11 ---
The Colorado Project and the Condon Report.
When the United States was at the early stages of the large wave of UFO
sightings that occurred in 1966, two nearly coincidental events occurred in
Michigan, which achieved national attention. Due to a variety of blunders,
the Director of Project Blue Book, Major Hector Quintanilla, pushed Hynek
to issue a statement debunking the sightings. Hynek described the sightings
as “swamp gas”, which appeared to denigrate the Michigan citizenry involved.
This angered them and their prominent governmental representative, Speaker
of the House, Gerald Ford.
Ford decided to make a public affair of his
displeasure, and the Air Force was humiliated right up to the Secretary of
the Air Force, Harold Brown. Brown, having been criticized in this way, had
difficulty regaining credibility.
The problem was softened by the Air Force’s suggestion that they would
be willing to cooperate with some independent research institution to explore
the subject and report back to the public and Congress. Thus began the
Colorado Project. The project was almost the complete reverse of a scientific
research project and a grant. The “suggestion” came from the military—not
a scientific organization. Moreover, the chief researcher, Edward Condon,
knew little to nothing about the subject aside from being a world expert
seeking a grant. None of the chief researchers knew anything in depth about
the subject. In fact, those who could have been classified as experts were
instead specifically excluded as being biased.
As a result, the project had no research plan or really any idea of how to
do the job. After failing to “interest” around a dozen academic institutions
(which gave the Air Force blunt refusals), the University of Colorado was
somehow talked into taking on the project. The sociology of all of this is
rather complicated and is described directly from the Colorado reports in
the review paper on the subject by Swords [121].
Condon would only agree to lend his name as Chief Investigator if some-
one else could be found to do the actual administrative work and keep him
informed.
The administrator was Walter Robert Orr’s assistant director,
Robert Low, at the High Altitude Observatory at Boulder, Colorado. Low
took on the real task of directing and did a surprisingly good job of creating
a plan.
Due to a near circus of blunders and personality problems on all sides,
none of Low’s plans came to fruition.
Despite this, many aspects of the
phenomenon were analyzed (most notably photographic cases by William
Hartmann and radar cases by Gordon Thayer), which indicated that there
30

--- Page 12 ---
was much unexplained and researchable about UFOs [121].
Over time, the project fell apart. One must read the details to believe
them [121]. James Wadsworth, who was a graduate student member of the
primary staff, commented: [122]
Most of the project heads have duties in their departments and
are only part-time on this. Thank God that is the case as most of
them contribute generously with the axe and have little positive
to offer, much less enthusiasm. I feel like each general meeting
sets the whole project back. You would not believe the chicken-
shit security-notched academic egotism that goes on.
It is as though the first concern is to protect themselves from
getting tainted by the quasiscientific animal known as UFO. By
the time they have succeeded at this, their value as open-minded
scientists has suffered greatly. They are too busy maintaining a
role to let loose what little creativity they have.
Every prominently involved researcher (other than two) was of the opin-
ion that UFOs were worthy of serious study. Those ten persons went on the
record at various times stating so. Nevertheless, Condon wrote oppositely
in his conclusions and was quite emotionally opposite in his interactions
with scientists. Although not being able to “unscientifically” vent in print,
Condon in his correspondence and other interactions makes his overemotion-
alism against the UFO subject undeniably clear. Almost everything about
the structure of the organization, the choice of personnel, and the behaviors
of all involved are classic examples of how not to do science. For example,
there was never even a published list of the project staff [67].
After thousands of reports had been collected, the Condon report [123],
which has been highly criticized, concluded that UFOs did not constitute a
direct threat to national security and that the scientific study of UFOs was
unlikely to be productive [124]. The Air Force used this conclusion to close
Project Blue Book in 1969.
In general, the situation is best described by the excerpt from Berliner et
al. [79]:
While the U.S. Air Force unquestionably had the capability to
investigate UFOs scientifically, there is no evidence that it has
ever done so. Published reports and related documents suggest
studies were hastily done, each time forced by short-term political
31

--- Page 13 ---
considerations and public pressures rather than scientific inquiry.
The resulting studies were superficial at best, inept at worst.
3.3.8. American Association for the Advancement of Science Conference
The same year that Project Blue Book was shut down, the American
Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) held a symposium on
Unidentified Flying Objects during their annual meeting in Boston, Mas-
sachusetts, USA in December 26–31, 1969 [125]. The Unidentified Flying
Objects Symposium was organized by Thornton Page (NASA Manned Space-
craft Center, Houston TX USA), Philip Morrison (Massachusetts Institute
of Technology (MIT), Cambridge MA USA), Walter Orr Roberts (University
Corporation for Atmospheric Research, Boulder CO USA), and Carl Sagan
(Cornell University, Ithaca NY USA).
The meeting was summarized as [126] :
The symposium is intended to demonstrate the application of
scientific methodology to a contemporary controversy and to ac-
quaint scientists with the wide variety of facts and interpretations.
It is not expected that any firm conclusion will be reached about
‘the correct interpretation’ Presentations and discussion should
be of interest to astronomers, physicists, meteorologists, sociolo-
gists, psychologists, and educators.
The 15 papers from the symposium were published in the book “UFO’s—A
Scientific Debate” by Carl Sagan and Thornton Page [127]. It was at this
meeting that James McDonald presented his well-known paper “Science in
Default” [128]. An audio recording of McDonald’s talk can be heard here
[129].
3.3.9. The Pocantico Meeting
In the almost thirty years that had passed since James McDonald’s pre-
sentation on “Science in Default”, virtually no progress had been made to un-
derstand that recalcitrant UFO phenomenon that simply and frustratingly,
refused to go away. Laurance Rockefeller initiated a study of the UFO phe-
nomenon led by Stanford astrophysicist Peter Sturrock (Sec. Appendix A.15)
and a review panel of nine impartial scientists, which took the form of a sci-
entific workshop at the Pocantico Conference Center in Tarrytown, New York
(30 miles north of New York City) from September 29 to October 3, 1997
[130].
32

--- Page 14 ---
As we will describe, the Pocantico workshop stands as a refreshing and
unique example of how the scientific community can be brought in, and
introduced to this complicated UFO problem. The workshop was structured
so that there was a Review Panel of nine minimally-biased scientists who
were introduced to the UFO research performed by scientific investigators.
Ultimately, the investigators did their best in presenting a scientific case to
the Review Panel, and the Review Panel gave a fair and rational response to
the presentations made by the investigators. The result was that the Review
Panel agreed that the UFO problem was a topic worthy of scientific study,
and was in need of institutional support.
Sturrock described the Review Panel: [130, p. 113]
The nine scientists who agreed to serve on the review panel were
clearly not close-minded, or they would have never have arrived
at Pocantico. They were all curious to learn something about this
strange subject that has been in scientific limbo for fifty years.
On the other hand, scientists are human beings, and no human
being is free from prejudice. To the best of his or her ability, a
scientist must strive to separate his evaluation of evidence from
whatever prejudice he may have: this is not always easy, and
some scientists are in this respect more successful than others.
... since it was impossible to recruit scientists with no bias what-
ever concerning the UFO question, I chose to select scientists
whose bias would tend to be the opposite of the investigators.
the investigators clearly believed that the UFO problem deserved
study... To the best of my knowledge, no member of the review
panel had come to the same conclusion or, indeed, to any relevant
conclusion.
The Scientific Steering Committee consisted of homas E. Holzer, Robert
Jahn, David E. Pritchard, Harold E. Puthoff, Yervant Terzian, and Charles
R. Tolbert [130, p.xi]. Sturrock thanked the following scientists (the investi-
gators):2 Richard F. Haines (Sec. Appendix A.5), Illobrand Von Ludwiger,
Mark Rodeghier, John F. Schuessler, Erling Strand, Michael D. Swords,
2The astute reader will note that Drs. Haines, Rodeghier, Strand, Swords, and Vall´ee
are all coauthors of this present work.
33

--- Page 15 ---
Jacques F. Vall´ee (Sec. Appendix A.17), and Jean-Jacques Velasco for pro-
viding a crash-course on the UFO topic, and the following scientists: Von
R. Eshleman, Thomas E. Holzer, J. R. (Randy) Jokipii, Fran¸cois Louange,
H. J. (Jay) Melosh, James J. Papike, Guenther Reitz, Charles R. Tolbert,
and Bernard Vayret for serving on the Review Panel and making a “brave
attempt to assess the topic in that very short time” [130, p.xi].
Sturrock described the meeting: [130, p.114]
The proceedings began on Tuesday morning. No one knew quite
what to expect. The investigators no doubt hoped for sincere
appreciation of the results of their long efforts under difficult cir-
cumstances to address a recalcitrant problem. The panel mem-
bers probably hoped for clear, crisp presentations ... The moder-
ators hoped that they could keep things moving... The director
hoped that during the exchange each side would quickly develop
an appreciation for and understanding of the other side, and that
the panel members would rapidly assimilate the information that
the investigators planned to present.
No one got everything they wanted. On the first day some got
much less than they wanted.
The panel members seemed to
feel that the presentations were poorly prepared and poorly pre-
sented, and the investigators may have felt that the panel mem-
bers were overly critical and overly academic. ...
At the end of the first day, the investigators were invited to leave
the meeting room, so that the panel could meet in executive ses-
sion... the first crisis occurred. The panel members could and did
speak their minds, and it was immediately very clear that some
members were concerned about what they had gotten themselves
into.
...
If every participant at the meeting had then gone off to his own
hotel for the evening and night, the second day might have begun
on a rather sour note. Fortunately, all the participants spent a
very pleasant evening together, and we convened on Wednesday
morning somewhat sadder but definitely wiser than we had been
when we all arrived on Monday afternoon. No one bailed out.
...
34

--- Page 16 ---
The review picked up speed on Wednesday and got into stride on
Thursday. the panel members had probably become somewhat
more realistic in their expectations and were beginning to ap-
preciate the complexity of the UFO problem. The investigators
had come to realize that they had a tough audience, and they
attempted to rise to the challenge.
The Review Panel summarized their conclusions and recommendations:
[130, pp. 120–122]
The thrust of these presentations was that at least some of the
phenomena are not easily explainable.
The panel focused on
incidents involving some form of physical evidence, with clear
recognition of the dangers of relying wholly on the testimony of
witnesses and of the importance of physical measurements for
distinguishing among hypotheses.
It was clear that at least a few reported incidents might have in-
volved rare but significant phenomena such as electrical activity
high above thunderstorms (e.g. sprites) or rare cases of radar
ducting. On the other hand, the review panel was not convinced
that any of the evidence involved currently unknown physical pro-
cesses or pointed to the involvement of an extraterrestrial intel-
ligence. A few cases may have had their origin in secret military
activities.
The history of earth science includes several examples of the final
acceptance of phenomena originally dismissed as folk tales: two
centuries ago, meteorites (then regarded as stones falling from the
sky) were in this category. the reality of ephemeral phenomena
such as ball lightning and sprites was questioned until recently.
It may therefore be valuable to carefully evaluate UFO reports
to extract information about unusual phenomena currently un-
known to science. However, to be credible to the scientific com-
munity, such evaluation must take place with a spirit of objectiv-
ity and a willingness to evaluate rival hypotheses.
It appears that most current UFO investigations are carried out
at a level of rigor that is not consistent with prevailing standards
of scientific research. However, the panel acknowledged the initia-
tive and dedication of those investigators who made presentations
35

--- Page 17 ---
at this workshop, both for their efforts to apply the tools of sci-
ence to a complex problem long neglected by the academic com-
munity, and for the diligence in archiving and analyzing relevant
observational data.
The panel further concluded that further analysis of the evidence
presented at the workshop is unlikely to elucidate the cause or
causes of the reports. However, the panel considers that new data,
scientifically acquired and analyzed (especially of well-documented,
recurrent events), could yield useful information. In this case,
physical scientists would have an opportunity to contribute to
the resolution of the UFO problem.
The panel concluded with a list of recommendations [130, p. 122], which
include:
• The UFO problem is not a simple one, and it is unlikely that
there is any simple universal answer.
• Whenever there are unexplained observations, there is the
possibility that scientists will learn something new by study-
ing thise observations.
• Scientists should concentrate on cases which include as much
independent physical evidence as possible and strong witness
testimony.
• Some form of formal regular contact between the UFO com-
munity and physical scientists could be productive.
• It is desirable that there be institutional support for research
in this area.
• The GEPAN/SEPRA project of CNES... in France has since
1977 provided a valuable model for a modest but effective
organization for collecting and analyzing UFO observations
and related data.
• Reflecting on evidence presented at the workshop that some
witnesses of UFO events have suffered radiation-type in-
juries, the panel draws the attention of the medical commu-
nity to a possible health risk associated with UFO events.
36

--- Page 18 ---
The meeting ultimately resulted in the publication of the book “The UFO
Engima: A New Review of the Physical Evidence”, which provides a unique
summary of the topic. The volume consists of five main parts, which review
the History of the UFO topic, cover twelve Presentations made at Pocan-
tico, present several Reflections by the Review Panel on what was learned,
as well as summaries of case Material. The book is a valuable resource es-
pecially since the twelve chapters on presentations cover topics that include
photographic evidence, luminosity estimates, radar evidence, the Hessdalen
Project (Sec. 7.1.1), vehicle interference, aircraft equipment malfunction, ap-
parent gravitational or inertial effects, ground traces, injuries to vegetation,
physiological effects on witnesses, and analyis of debris [130].
3.3.10. United States: The AATIP Program
There is some evidence that in the years after Project Blue Book, the
United States Government continued to have programs in place that con-
tinued to collect and internally communicate information on UFOs.
For
example, on Sept. 19, 1976 a UFO encounter in Tehran, Iran involving two
Imperial Iranian Air Force F-4 Phantom II jets, that were dispatched to inves-
tigate an unknown object and had lost instrumentation and communications
as they approached the object as well as a temporary weapons systems fail-
ure prompted a report to be sent to the US Joint Chiefs of Staff [131]. Such
reports have an origin, which has a mandate to collect the information and
produce them.
On Dec.
16, 2017, the NYT published an article that revealed the
existence of a $22 million USD Pentagon program, called the Advanced
Aerospace Threat Identification Program (AATIP), which investigated re-
ports of unidentified flying objects [20]. The program was initiated by the
then US Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada) in 2007 under the
name of the Advanced Aerospace Weapon Systems Applications Program
(AAWSAP) to study UAP [132]. The AATIP Program was supported by
military intelligence official, Luis Elizondo [20]. Elizondo strongly supported
the program saying:
AATIP (Advanced Aviation Threat Identification Program) did
find a lot of stuff. This wasn’t just a one-off looking at the Nimitz
incident. There were many incidents we looked at, and we looked
at them on a continuing basis.
During his time at AATIP, Elizondo worked to release three US Navy
37

--- Page 19 ---
Forward-Looking InfraRed (FLIR) videos of UAPs [133], along with Christo-
pher Mellon, the former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Intelli-
gence, who provided the audio of the pilot’s communications:
FLIR1 (The Nimitz Encounter)
which documents the encounter of an F-18 jet from the Nimitz Carrier
Group in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of San Diego, California in 2004
with a white cylindrical, or Tic-Tac-candy-shaped, object. [134, 55]
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6rWOtrke0HY
Gimbal
which documents the encounter of an F/A-18 Super Hornet jet from the
Roosevelt Carrier Group with one of a number of objects encountered
over the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Florida USA in 2015.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tf1uLwUTDA0
Go Fast
which documents the encounter of an F/A-18 Super Hornet jet from
the Roosevelt Carrier Group an object encountered over the Atlantic
Ocean off the coast of Florida USA in 2015.
https://youtu.be/wxVRg7LLaQA?si=kkqIHBcJjlcfN-Y9
During its existence, the main contractor for the AATIP program was
Bigelow Aerospace through Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies (BAASS),
and its predecessor National Institute for Discovery Science (NIDS), which
were listed as the place of contact for commercial pilot UFO reports [135]
freeing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from having direct in-
volvement with UFOs [136]. In addition to collecting reports, BAASS col-
lected data on UFOs for AATIP on Robert Bigelow’s ranch near Vernal,
Utah in the Uintah Basin. Mr. Bigelow noted in an interview that:
Internationally, we are the most backward country in the world
on this issue... Our scientists are scared of being ostracized, and
our media is scared of the stigma. China and Russia are much
more open and work on this with huge organizations within their
countries. Smaller countries like Belgium, France, England and
South American countries like Chile are more open, too. They
are proactive and willing to discuss this topic, rather than being
held back by a juvenile taboo.
38

--- Page 20 ---
The scientists working for BAASS were involved in producing a number of De-
fense Intelligence Reference Documents (DIRDs) [137] including topics such
as materials [138], advanced propulsion [139], and space access [140][141].
Harold Puthoff, the Chief Scientist for BAASS described the situation as:
[132]
You’ve got these advanced aerospace vehicles flying around, that
we don’t know where they come from, what the intent is, possibly
off-world even...
The funding for AATIP ran out in 2012, and Elizondo resigned in October
2017 in protest of “what he characterized as excessive secrecy and internal
opposition.” Elizondo emphasized that there needed to be more serious at-
tention to the:
... the many accounts from the Navy and other services of unusual
aerial systems interfering with military weapon platforms and
displaying beyond-next-generation capabilities.
The AATIP Program was followed by the UAP Task Force (UAPTF) as
discussed in the Introduction (Sec. 1).
3.4. Canada
3.4.1. Project Magnet
In 1950, Canada embarked on its first official investigation into UFOs,
driven by the vision of Wilbert Smith, a senior radio engineer from the De-
partment of Transport. Smith had a bold idea: that the Earth’s magnetic
field might hold the key to advanced propulsion technology, potentially used
by mysterious flying objects commonly referred to as “flying saucers.”
Smith’s project, known as Project Magnet, was officially approved in De-
cember 1950, with the backing of Commander Edwards, the Deputy Minister
of Transport for Air Services. At its core, Project Magnet sought to explore
geomagnetic phenomena, not just to understand the behavior of the Earth’s
magnetic field but also to investigate its potential role in the propulsion sys-
tems of UAP. Smith’s research was spurred by reports of UAP sightings and
his belief in the possibility of extracting usable technology from this enigma,
technology that might include the harnessing of geomagnetic energy.
Project Magnet was not merely theoretical. Smith set up a dedicated
observatory at Shirley Bay [142], about 20 miles outside Ottawa, equipped
39
