================================================================================
American Alchemy - Pasulka Nell (CORRECTED)
================================================================================

DIARIZATION CORRECTIONS APPLIED:
----------------------------------------
  False interjections merged: 11
  Mid-sentence switches fixed: 63
  Segments: 1532 -> 1458

TRANSCRIPT:
================================================================================

[0:05] Jesse Michels:
  So why are we here?
  I think this talk, we want to kind of accomplish two aims.
  One is talking about how UFOs are real.
  They're real phenomena.
  They're a real thing.
  But I think that's somewhat passé and conventional at this point.
  Over 50% of the American population at this point probably believes in the
  existence of UFOs.
  We're at hereticon.
  So I think the real heresy here would be actually linking UFOs as a modern
  observable scientific phenomena with past religious phenomena.
  So angels and demons would be kind of the popular nomenclature of the past.
  Is what we're experiencing today what we've experienced in the past?
  And so is religion actually real?
  You know, the Latin root of religion is religare, which means to relink.
  And it's our belief on this panel that through observing.
  UFOs, we can relink ourselves with, you know, kind of a past epistemology
  that we've always had, and that modernity is actually somewhat of an
  aberration from that epistemology.
  So I have two amazing guests to discuss this with me.
  First, I have Diana Walsh Pasulka.
  She is a classicist and religious studies professor who specializes in
  Catholic history.
  She wrote a great book in 2014 called Heaven Can Wait about the Catholic
  concept of
  purgatory.
  And then very interestingly, she followed that up with two books on UFO
  phenomena as kind of a meta religious modern phenomena.
  In 2018, she wrote an amazing book called American Cosmic, which is like the
  modern ufology Bible.
  I highly recommend you read it.
  And in 2023, she wrote a great book called Encounters.
  And she in her own right is somewhat of a, you know, kind of a mystic and
  truth seeker.
  And so very honored to have her.
  We also have Colonel Carl Nell on stage.
  Very excited to have him.
  He's a he's a very polymathic thinker.
  And it's always hard to present him because his CV is very long and
  impressive.
  But he worked at aerospace companies like Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman.
  He's commanded every level of the army to brigade.
  He helped set up Army Futures Command.
  So he ran a lot of tech modernization efforts for the army.
  And probably most relevant for this talk, he was the army representative for
  the UAP or Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena Task Force.
  [unclear:Yohann Demmer]
  force which basically was directed to look into uh uap ufos i'll use those
  interchangeably in their
  existence and reality and so you know he's uh privileged for privy to a lot
  of classified
  information but here he'll be talking about the non-classified information i
  want to start
  with you carl uh to you know allay audience you know uh how would you
  convince them that ufos
  are real because this whole talk is kind of you know predicated on that fact
  well thank you jesse it's a pleasure to be here and great to be here with
  diana and really excited about this event so yeah we actually uh looked into
  this area and so probably privy to a lot of information that's not publicly
  available so you know how can the rest of the folks out there maybe have
  some confidence that uh you know there's some reality of this subject so
  there's sort of three lines of evidence that you can look at uh there's the
  first principles there's sort of testimonial from people that are in
  positions to know and then there's the data so like if we're going to kind
  of run through those from first principles uh you know the going in position
  is probably the laws of physics are the same uh here that they are
  everywhere else and and undoubtedly there's some exceptions but in general
  that's pretty much accepted by everybody and so if you look at how quickly
  life evolved on our planet uh the uh argument that's usually made is that
  life is uncommon and that faster than light travel is not possible and both
  of these things really have no evidence for them exactly opposite so for
  instance uh their blue green algae fossilized in stromatolites from 3.5
  billion years ago and recent scholarship has indicated that life may have
  evolved even earlier
[4:07] Colonel Carl Nell:
  4.1 billion years ago so the earth itself is five billion years old
  the crust has not even cooled by uh 4.1 billion years ago so there's
  evidence that life evolved
  on earth at the earliest possible time even earlier than would be reasonably
  suspected
  and that's not to say that there's not a certain scientific evidence or
  evidence that we have
  so we're not sure as to whether or not life evolved faster than we are in
  the future
  but it could be that life has evolved in a way that we are able to predict
  uh you know we're we're kind of lucky to have uh what's called a population
  one star
  there's 20 billion uh population one stars in the galaxy and that's about
  the size of the earth
  so that's what they're saying so we're not sure if the sun exists if the
  earth exists in two billion
  galaxy.
  The Sun is like a relatively young population, one star.
  There are stars that
  are like the Sun that are 5 billion years older than the Sun.
  So that's like a massive
  amount of time for other civilizations to potentially evolve on these other
  planets
  and just statistically.
  So then you look at like faster than light travel, like can they
  get here?
  You don't even need that assumption, but Miguel Alcubierre, a Mexican
  postgraduate
  student at University of Mexico in 1994 solved Einstein's equations for an
  effective faster
  than light mechanism.
  NASA's looked into this.
  There's no dispute that the solution is a
  valid solution.
  So it requires this thing called negative energy to work.
  Well, negative
  energy is a component of quantum mechanics.
  The Casimir effect, which was known in the
  sixties and demonstrated in the nineties is evidence for the existence of
  negative energy.
  The expansion of the universe, which we've recently determined is
  accelerating, is due
  to something called dark energy.
  Dark energy is negative energy.
  So we've got an effective
  solution for Einstein's equations that requires negative energy and we know
  that negative
  energy exists.
  This isn't an engineering solution, but it is a theoretical solution.
  So it's very
  much disingenuous to suggest that life is uncommon and faster than light
  travel is possible.
  Both of those are false.
  So that's sort of the first principles argument once you kind
  of put that into the context of all the other evidence.
  So let's look at testimonial.
  Now
  testimonial isn't a hard scientific factual data, but then you've got to
  explain why it's
  true.
  You've got to understand why people such as Barack Obama, Donald Trump, all
  say that UFOs
  are real.
  They're in a position to have been briefed on this.
  You can look at the Admiral
  of the fleet, Lord Hill Norton of the United Kingdom, former minister of
  defense staff
  has basically said UFOs are real.
  You can look at Haim Eshed, the father of the Israeli
  space program that says non-human intelligence is real.
  You can look at Paul Hellyer, the
  former.
  The former minister of defense for Canada has said non-human intelligence is
  real.
  You
  can look at Chris Mellon, who's the first assistant secretary of defense for
  intelligence
  for the progenitor for the undersecretary for Intel and security has come
  out and said
  UFOs are real.
  You can look at David Grush, who just testified last year before the house
  committee on oversight to the effect that there is a government program
  looking at the
  UFOs because they're real.
  And he was accompanied by two Naval aviators that said the same thing.
  You can look at Lou Elizondo, who's a very famous UAP whistleblower.
  So, and there's many more of
  these.
  So that's sort of like the testimonial evidence.
  In fact, you can look at the legislation
  that was just submitted by Senator Schumer and Senator Rounds and as well as
  Senator Rubio and
  Senator Gillibrand and several other of their colleagues last year that
  basically said we need
  to look into this.
  The Congress is not being told the truth.
  And, you know, there's a lot of
  evidence that the government knows more than what they're saying about this
  topic.
  In fact,
  Senator Rounds and Senator Schumer had a colloquy to discuss this very topic
  and intended to
  reintroduce that legislation.
  And so then you can look at the data.
  We've got videos, what they call
  colloquially, the FLIR, the gimbal, the go fast video that show unidentified
  flying objects that
  the Pentagon has asserted are not ours and are not our adversaries.
  And they date from events
  that happened in 2004 and 2015.
  You can look at the experience of Gordon Cooper, one of America's first
  Mercury 7 astronauts who chased UFOs in 1951 over West Germany, and it
  testified before the United Nations in 1979 to that fact.
  You can look at the incursions over the northern U.S. ballistic missile
  warning system in the 70s where radars were picking up UFOs, and then you
  can look at in the 1960s the readiness status change of our ICBMs at
  Malmstrom Air Force Base where missiles were taken offline, and then in the
  Soviet Union, an analogous thing where missiles were brought online, and
  there are FOIA documents and testimony to the reality of that.
  There's an agreement.
  Between the former Soviet Union and the United States, it's still in force,
  intending to reduce the threat of nuclear war, where there's a stipulation
  that either side will notify the other if UFOs impact their missile early
  warning systems.
  So people say, well, if this is real, why don't they just land on the White
  House lawn?
  Well, in 1952, the radar visual sightings over Washington, D.C. for two
  weekends, including air-to-air intercepts that precipitated the largest
  press conference.
  Since World War II up to that time, and so people say, well, okay, why don't
  you just land in the middle of the day, and that's happened in 1994 in Ruwa
  Zimbabwe, where craft landed and beings presented themselves to elementary
  school-aged children in the middle of the day.
  That almost similar, identical incident happened in 1966 in Westall,
  Australia.
  There's a concerted correlation between UFO or UAP activity.
  The Pantex site in Texas and the Hanford Plutonium Production Facility have
  numerous UFO sightings and correlations.
  And in fact, this extends to overseas sites.
  Even the Fukushima incident had correlations.
  So looking at the evidence, both from the standpoint of first principles,
  from the standpoint of people who would know, and from factual information,
  it's indisputable that this is a real phenomenon.
[10:41] Jesse Michels:
  And when it comes to UFOs, I think there's this kind of misnomer that this
  all started in the 40s.
  It started with the advent of our nuclear program.
  Diana, you've done some amazing work about how this might comport with
  things that we've observed in our religious tradition and in history in the
  past.
[10:58] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Okay, yeah, sure.
  So first, I want to explain a little bit about what we do in my field, which
  is called religious studies.
  Religious studies is a discipline that is academic.
  So I'm not going to—we don't advocate for religion.
  We're not ministers or theologians.
  We're academics.
  We use archaeology, history, academic disciplines in order to look at social
  effects of basically religion.
  Most of the people in the world are religious.
  More than 80—usually 83, about 83 to 85 percent of the world affiliate with
  some religion.
  So it's actually important to study religion.
  I'm not going to advocate for belief in UFOs.
  I'm going to tell you my story about how I got into this.
  Because I was never—I never thought about UFOs.
  In fact, until three years ago, I had not seen Close Encounters of the Third
  Kind.
  And what a great movie that is, by the way.
  So yeah, so I'm not going to advocate for belief in UFOs.
  But what I am going to do is tell you about my entrance into this field,
  which has ramped up considerably since I started in 2012.
  So in 2012, I was writing a book called Heaven Can Wait about what in my
  field we call ascent narratives.
  All cultures have their own forms of this genre of oral tradition or
  literature.
  And what an ascent narrative is, is basically a person who is either touring
  the afterlife, like Dante touring hell, purgatory, and then heaven.
  A pre-Christian ascent narrative would be the allegory of the cave in
  Plato's Republic, where a person thinks that reality are these shadows on
  the wall and ascends out of the cave.
  Right.
  Right.
  Right.
  Right.
  Right.
  Right.
  Right.
  Right.
  Right.
  But what I didn't realize is that, wow, there's another reality.
  So this is what I was doing.
  I was looking at ascent narratives in the Catholic history and Christian
  history.
  And I utilized archives.
  So archives are – I've been to the Vatican and looked at their various
  archives.
  They have many, over 53 miles of shelving of old documents.
  These are the kinds of things you see in archives, material culture,
  codexes, you know, things like this.
  Philadelphia has a wonderful archive.
  So I looked at archives and I was looking.
  for data about purgatory, which I found.
  But I also found reports of aerial phenomena by
  Catholic people from Europe and Canada and the United States from 1200 to
  1800.
  And I thought
  these were interesting because a lot of times when European Catholics, say,
  saw something in the sky,
  they would have a moment of confusion.
  What is this?
  What are the things they would see in the
  sky?
  So they would see disks, light, orbs.
  Sometimes they would see things they thought
  were flying houses, okay, the flying house of Laredo.
  So these, you know, they would see these
  aerial phenomena.
  And I took notes because I'm a researcher and that's what I do.
  I don't leave
  data out.
  So I had this long list of these sightings.
  Sometimes they would interpret them
  as souls from purgatory that needed to be prayed away.
  But they saw these things.
  And I thought
  that was interesting. And I thought that was interesting. And I thought that
  was interesting.
  But UFOs never crossed my mind.
  So I kept a log of these sightings.
  So I showed a friend of mine
  and said, what do you think of these reports?
  And immediately he looked at them and said,
  they remind me of a Steven Spielberg movie.
  They look like UFOs.
  And I thought he was silly.
  Okay,
  I thought he was silly.
  I didn't think about it again until I started to publish my information
  about these events and reports, what now I call angel contact events
  generally is how I refer to
  them.
  I started to get inquiries from people at aerospace companies.
  And not just one, I got a lot.
  And I was
  thinking that this was strange, because this has never happened to me before
  when I was writing
  about Catholic history.
  But it was this specific thing, which was the angel reports.
  And they wanted
  my data.
  And they were very interested in certain things.
  They wanted to know, what did the people
  describe seeing?
  Did the people describe seeing the UFOs?
  And they wanted to know, what did the
  people describe seeing?
  Did the people describe light?
  What was the color of the light?
  What did
  the objects look like?
  And most interesting to me, did the people report injuries?
  Okay, did the
  people report injuries?
  Well, yes, actually, they did.
  But so they wanted my data.
  I happened to
  meet one of these people.
  This was quite an impressive person.
  I call him pseudonymously in
  the book that I wrote about this, Tyler.
  And he had amazing credentials.
  He worked for our space
  program.
  He was the government liaison to Elon Musk for certain missions.
  And he said that they had
  acquired debris from UFO crash sites, and that he was reverse engineering
  these, and they were
  creating this technology, kind of game-changing technology.
  That was in 2016, that I went with people that I had to have as pseudonyms.
  Okay,
  so now Gary Nolan has come up.
  And that's actually a relief to me.
  That he's come out as himself.
  And the reason why we went was because Tyler, who's still a pseudonym
  for a person who is a mission controller and works in the Space Force.
  So whereas I was looking at
  these as maybe metaphoric or historical, you know, not necessarily, well,
  not at all real.
  That's not
  what we do in my field.
  We're not looking at these as real things.
  All of these very intelligent,
  credentialed, highly placed people, scientists, were looking at these as if
  they were real.
  And so that was shocking to me.
  Okay, I then looked back at my tradition, at the Catholic
  tradition, and I looked at some of the most iconic angel contact events.
  And I began to understand
  them in a different way.
  And one that you might know about is the stigmata.
  So the stigmata happened
  to St. Francis of Assisi, arguably the most famous saint of the Catholic
  Church.
  You, even though you
  may not be Catholic, you've seen statues of him. And you know, you've seen
  statues of him. And you
  know, you've seen statues of him. And you know, you've seen statues of him.
  And you know, you've
  seen statues of him. And you know, you've seen statues of him. And you know,
  you've seen statues
  of him.
  If you've, you know, gone into gardens, you'll see him.
  He has, you know, usually a bird
  on his shoulder or something like that.
  So a very charismatic person living in the 1200s in Europe.
  And he had an experience of, thankfully, they have one of these here, of
  this seraphim.
  So if
  you'll see over here in the icon of this event is a seraphim, which I
  thought was really, it actually
  convinced me to come.
  I was like, yeah, I'll come and I'll talk about what I've studied and, you
  know, what I know about.
  So the seraphim,
  is, is this angel.
  And it doesn't look like the angels that we typically know about.
  And well,
  if you look at the primary source material of these contact events, it looks
  like that.
  And
  it generally has an eye in the middle of it, and it doesn't injure.
  I looked at the primary source
  material for St. Francis of Assisi.
  And what I found was that when he had this contact with
  this thing that he described as a seraphim, it came down, there was light,
  it had an eye and there are competing primary source reports, but the best
  report shows that
  brother Leo, who's about 15, he's watching.
  And he sees that this is how he describes it,
  that this thing dealt harshly with Francis.
  Afterwards, Francis was injured and the
  tradition determines that these injuries are called the wounds of Christ.
  What happened was
  that this was a sh a very hush, hush situation for
  Francis and Leo.
  And when they went back to the convent, he tried as best as he could to make
  Francis comfortable because he was injured and they didn't tell anybody.
  Okay.
  So it was completely
  quiet.
  It was a stigma.
  Okay.
  It was literally a stigma.
  And so he eventually died most likely
  from these wounds.
[19:02] Jesse Michels:
  And what's so amazing about that story, the burns on St. Francis of Assisi's
  hands,
  really comport one-to-one with what the CIA is now studying as far as people
  who've encountered UFOs.
  So they work with Gary Nolan, who's a microbiologist, Nobel nominee at
  Stanford,
  who actually has a foundation dedicated to this.
  And the CIA came knocking at his door and they're
  like, we have these files of people who've had all these anomalous
  experiences and they really
  comport with, it's like he had electromagnetic radiation.
  They just didn't really have the words
  to describe it.
  But in using the term stigmata,
  we bring up this idea of non-disclosure, this idea that power structures
  kind of institutionally
  gate reality from us.
  So is that happening in the modern UFO context as well, Carl?
[19:50] Colonel Carl Nell:
  Yeah.
  Thanks for that question.
  Yeah, exactly.
  So there's sort of six principles or reasons for
  non-disclosure of this information from a government standpoint, the first
  being national
  security.
  You don't want the adversary to know what you know and so on.
  And then the second
  reason is lack of a plan.
  This is so profound.
  The second reason is lack of a plan.
  This is so profound.
  impactful.
  And as Peter Thiel sort of alluded, you know, there may be technology with
  unknown
  ramification.
  And, you know, if you let that out, there could have significantly a
  detrimental
  effect.
  So you've got this lack of a plan issue.
  You've got this potential for societal disruption,
  like the ontological shock that will come from a realization of, you know,
  angels and aliens.
  You've got the potential for a covert agreement where people are benefiting
  from the status quo
  that is non-public, the potential for misdeeds having occurred and the
  desire to cover up
  misdeeds, and the potential just organizational intransigence, lack of a
  priority that you
  expect of any type of bureaucracy.
  And so this isn't like necessarily theoretical, right?
  You
  can look at historical documents.
  1953, there's declassified documents.
  There was a panel called
  the Robertson Panel at the CIA that basically said the government decides to
  debunk this topic to
  misdirection.
  and the budget provides more resources for them inorder to protect the
  public and to actually
  infiltrate, the organizations that existed at the time the public
  organizations that were looking
  into this.
  This is absolutely established fact, nobody disputes this and the documents
  are
  available.
  And people perhaps heard of project blue book this does in your study
  looking at
  UFOs by the US Air Force, airforce want to get out of this job.
  They commissioned to study from University of Colorado.
  He wrote the conclusion of the study before the study was complete, bragged
  about it.
  A lot of the scientists on the study defected publicly from the study.
  The study got published.
  The content of the study is at odds with the conclusions, but the Air Force
  canceled Project
  Blue Book anyway.
  So this really leads to what I think are sort of four heresies that maybe
  we'd like to talk
  about in the context of the Hereticon, the first being that nondisclosure of
  uncomfortable
  aspects of reality is a universal constant across cultures and across time.
  And the second piece, as Diana alluded, is that there's a hierarchy of being
  with non-human
  intelligence being included in that.
  Cosmism, which Diana is an expert at, is at the root of both the Russian and
  the U.S.
  space program.
  And consciousness is a component not only of metaphysics, but of physics
  itself.
[22:27] Jesse Michels:
  I actually want to get into cosmism.
  So this idea that, I mean, you met a...
  You know, somebody deep in the space program who was a nuts and bolts, you
  know, contributor
  to our space program.
  We think of our space program as, you know, Elon Musk is the tip of the
  spear.
  All we have is sort of chemical combustion.
  But you're speaking to this guy who, in your book, you write about,
  pseudonymously named
  Tyler, who is engaging in sort of like consciousness protocols.
  And that's somehow essential to his work.
  And then you go back and you do research about the early American and
  Russian space programs.
  And how, you know, a lot of these people think that they're in touch with
  angelic, and in
  certain cases, demonic beings.
  Do you want to talk about that?
[23:12] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah, sure.
  So, so cosmism, what's that?
  So there are...
  When this happened to me in 2012, I started to get my bearings after, you
  know, this recognition
  that people in aerospace in some of these companies were actually doing this
  work and
  what this meant.
  I was shocked.
  I saw my own tradition from adults.
  I saw myself in a different lens.
  And I decided to go back and to look at the space programs, the viable ones.
  That would be the American space program, ours, and the Russian space
  program.
  And so I started to do the preliminary, you know, work that a person does
  when they're
  looking at this is, you know, what were their belief systems?
  The ones that inspired these men in the early 20th century, late 19th
  century, early 20th
  century.
  What inspired them to create rocket technologies that were successful and
  actually successful?
  Yeah.
  And that's what really got us off the planet.
  So if you go to the Russian cosmos tradition, which is a similar tradition,
  you know, where
  they believe in, you know, like Konstantin Tsiolkovsky believed in NHI and
  that he was,
  you know, he believed in this and he wrote books about it.
  And he's the father of Russian rocketry.
  They're Christian.
  They have kind of a Christian overlay to this or framework.
  And so I saw this as the beginning of the Russian space program.
  And I began to do the same work with our space program.
  And in fact, I found it was Jack Parsons.
  Now, of course, if anybody knows about Jack Parsons, the patterns here match
  in terms
  of he believed that he was in contact.
  Jack Parsons is the father of our space program, by the way.
  Super interesting guy.
  Work with Aleister Crowley.
  So obviously he's not giving his NHI a Christian veneer, but I wouldn't say
  he's calling it
  demonic though.
  Like, sorry.
[24:57] Colonel Carl Nell:
  That's my interpretation.
[24:58] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  A lot of people say, oh, he was, you know, demonic, but he didn't view what
  he was doing
  as demonic.
  He actually viewed what he was doing as good.
  He thought that he was working for the common task of humans, of getting us
  into the space.
  So this would be the Russian and the American, in fact, I named my book
  American Cosmic because
  I was impressed that we hadn't talked about it and I thought that somebody
  should.
[25:23] Jesse Michels:
  Modernity is an aberration that we think man is apex consciousness.
  That is sort of a detour when it comes to the epistemology of mankind over,
  you know,
  across thousands of years.
  And in fact, many religious scholars in the past have gone so far as to
  classify a lot
  of the beings, you know, between us and God.
  And so St. Thomas Aquinas had his angel hierarchies, Iamblichus who's a
  Syrian Neoplatonist also
  had similar angel hierarchies and they literally have taxonomies and
  categorizations for these
  angels.
  They describe them.
  They describe some of the effects of people that observe them.
  In some cases it's literally, we'll say like irradiated light.
  So it sounds like kind of electromagnetic damage or whatever.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  So Carl, do we have any kind of modern scientific frameworks for how we
  should think about NHI
  or kind of, you know, them being higher on the kind of consciousness or
  evolution chain?
[26:15] Colonel Carl Nell:
  Yeah.
  So the scale that's often used is what's called the Kardashev scale.
  Nikolai Kardashev, a Russian astronomer back in 1964 sort of proposed during
  the age where
  optical astronomy was becoming popular and radio astronomy is coming on to
  identify civilizations, based on…
  on the ability of them to access the energy of an entire star.
  So you could build this thing called
  a Dyson sphere around the sun.
  And so that would blot out the visible light, but there'd be a big
  IR signature.
  And if astronomers could detect this, then they'd detect the civilization.
  So he called that a type two civilization.
  And then by extension, there's a type three
  civilization that controls all the energy output of a galaxy, let's say, and
  a type one civilization,
  maybe a little bit more advanced from our own that's basically controlling
  the whole planet.
  So this is the Kardashev scale.
  Carl Sagan talks about this, Neil deGrasse Tyson,
  Michio Kaku.
  It's like a popular thing.
  I would argue though that the scales,
  it's really not very instructive to look at UFOs and UAP because total
  civilization energy usage
  is like an unknowable thing based on observations of potential craft or
  potential recovered material
  or biologics or what have you.
  So there's a better model.
  [unclear:Dr. Paul Jay]
  out there that I would recommend, which is the universal civilization
  development model.
  And it goes off of what they have, what they know, and who they are.
  And so what they have
  would be more about energy density than the magnitude of energy usage.
  So energy density,
  if I've got certain energy density, I get fire.
  I got a greater energy density over longer time,
  I can smelt metal.
  Ultimately, I can do nuclear reactions.
  Maybe I can warp space and time.
  Maybe
  I can even impact the laws of physics.
  So that's the physics of energy.
  Jacques Vallée has talked
  about this idea of physics of information.
  So how much about the nature of reality does this
  civilization perhaps know?
  How much complexity can they manage?
  What's the time constant for
  their thought process?
  How many parallel paths can they contemplate at a single time?
  This idea
  of consciousness comes into play.
  So this almost of physics of information now is this other
  dimension.
  And then the third dimension is the ecological evolutionary dimension.
  What is the
  chemical basis for this life form?
  [unclear:Dr. Paul Jay]
  Where are they on the evolutionary path?
  Maybe not just a hundred years ahead of us,
  maybe a million years.
  What's it look like for a life form to be a billion years ahead of us?
  What's their relationship with their environment?
  Is it omnivorous?
  Is it derived from omnivorous
  stock, herbivore stock, et cetera?
  So all these things create a phase space, perhaps,
  that would be populated by a range of beings.
  And the distance in this phase space, we might
  call it the Hamming distance by analogy with electromagnetic signal
  processing,
  might dictate the amount of energy that we're going to have in this space.
  And so we're going
  to associate the likelihood of a competition, symbiotic or competitive
  relationship based on
  the likely hierarchies that undoubtedly exists.
[29:09] UNKNOWN:
  [unclear:Dr.ET spoon]
[29:09] Jesse Michels:
  Diana, we're talking about hierarchy of being and man-not being the apex of
  consciousness.
  And then
  we're also talking about uh, us, you know, scientists and engineers at the
  top of our
  space program using consciousness protocols.
  Um, if any of this stuff is true, I mean,
  I, I feel like a lot of people in the audience probably didn't come and walk
  into this room,
  believing these things, are we in Plato's cave?
  Are we in this sort of epistemic cave?
  And if we
  are, how do we get out?
[29:37] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yes, that's a great question.
  So,
  okay, first off, I'm going to reference Peter's talk, okay, because I
  thought it was really
  a great segue into some of the things that we were going to talk about.
[29:49] Peter Thiel:
  You know, we're told that there's nothing worse than Armageddon, but perhaps
  there is.
  Perhaps we should fear the Antichrist.
  Perhaps we should fear the one-world totalitarian state
  more than Armageddon.
[30:02] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  And so, I would say that the
  apocalypse is structural.
  So, for anyone in my field, we know that the apocalypse is
  always happening, okay?
  There's always an apocalypse.
  So, the early Christians
  who were Jewish actually did have their apocalypse.
  You know, the Romans destroyed
  their temple in 70.
  That was an apocalypse that those very specifically Jewish Christians were
  knowing was going to happen.
  It happened, but we go on.
  Things go on, okay?
  So, what is it then?
  So, the idea that there is an out or that, you know, there's a solution to
  the apocalypse,
  Plato suggests that it's in the allegory of the cave.
  So he never answers the question,
  but he gives this allegory.
  And what it is is basically a conversation.
  He calls it the
  dialectic.
  And he says that what you can do is you can... [unclear:Dr. Halena Gazelka]
  have this conversation so there's a sense of community baked in here but
  it's a it's more than just a conversation is a conversation about
  justice it's a conversation about goodness so you're saying kind of
  contemplation of virtue literally allows you to ascend out of this world in
  some
  way in some sort of metaphysical way I'm not sure I do believe that's what
  he's
  saying and he's he's basically saying that there is a sort of conversation
  that you can have probably not a text message right and and that is a it's a
  that's what he presents as the out and I think if there's a third option
  it's going to be that so with Plato Diana's sort of talking about maybe a
  proto architecture to religion and Carl we've had kind of offline
  conversations where you've said to me that maybe the esoteric version of a
  lot of the world's religions are actually sort of normalizable they actually
  contain a lot of similarities when it comes to religion and I think that's
  what he's saying in his writings which is that [unclear:nuestra] country
  when it comes to kind of encounters with nonhuman intelligence do you want
  to talk about that yeah well
[31:59] Colonel Carl Nell:
  I think that's actually right so most of these sort of the Gnostic tradition
  the
  Sufi tradition Islam the Kabbalah in Judaism
  and even Advaita Vedanta all talk about this sort of innerward looking
  initiatic experience where you're you know you're transcending this reality
  and connecting with the deeper reality so there's actually an interesting
  study
  largest large significant corpus of religious texts in the world, anywhere,
  of any tradition,
  any culture, are the pyramid texts like fifth dynasty Egypt, something like
  2500 BC.
  And so the Egyptological interpretation of the pyramid text is funerary.
  But there's a
  countervailing scholarship that says, well, actually, it's like really
  initiatory.
  When Egyptology was created, it moved away from mysticism and went totally
  rationalist.
  And so
  the ancient Greeks and the ancient Romans, anybody that actually knew
  Egyptian civilization firsthand
  knew that they were very esoteric.
  And so Egyptian scholarship has moved away from that and made the
  Egyptians extremely rationalist and very much funeral ritual based.
  Once you put the initiatic
  experience into the pyramid text, it's like, okay, I'm going to do this, I'm
  going to do that.
  The pyramid texts based on something called the Sed Festival, which is
  essentially a kingship
  ritual that's known to exist, then the pyramid and the pyramid texts become
  an initiatic engine
  that the living might actually embark upon.
  And this is interesting because then it creates
  direct connective tissue between the Hermetic tradition and the Gnostic
  tradition that came
  out of late period Egypt and then influenced both classical antiquity and
  then early Christian
  theology.
  So you've got essentially a linear line that can now be traced potentially
  to the
  earliest tradition in an esoteric sense.
[33:54] Jesse Michels:
  There's a great Meister Eckhart quote,
  theologians may quarrel, but mystics all speak the same language.
  So I think it speaks to that
  sort of pre-darkness.
  And there's actually a story I think of Jewish Kabbalists meeting with the
  Dalai Lama and they're talking about these non-human intelligences and the
  colors associated
  with them.
  And they're just laughing about how in agreement they are worldview-wise.
  I want to stick with you, Karl, because
  we are in a room full of entrepreneurs and people in venture capital.
  And so they might be thinking,
  okay, all this stuff might be real, but I don't really see it.
  And it's kind of ephemeral and
  what does this have to do with me?
  Is any of this investable?
  Can we turn this into a company? Right.
  Karl, do you want to?
[34:33] Colonel Carl Nell:
  Well, right.
  Well, I might hit that ball right back at you because Jesse's done a number
  of
  podcasts looking into Taylor Townsend Brown and some other very interesting
  heretical technologies.
  So I'd invite people
  to look at some of Jesse's podcasts.
  But I also submit to you if you sort of look at the arc of
  technological development, we're getting to the point that Feynman had
  talked about in the early
  sixties about there's room at the bottom, which is by which he meant like
  we're getting at the level
  where we can engineer at the molecular level, at the nature that that nature
  operates.
  And so these
  disciplines that originally appeared to be disparate like information
  science, material science,
  the semiconductor fab, genomics, etc., all look pretty much the same once
  you're able to engineer
  at the molecular level.
  So information and materials start to merge.
  You can come up with
  programmable matter, perhaps, self-healing structures, self-repairing
  structures.
  You're
  starting to move into that von Neumann machine level.
  So I would suggest looking at that area.
  Then we alluded earlier to this thing called the Casimir effect.
  The Casimir effect,
  you put two parallel plates that are conducting very close together, and you
  would expect
  classically nothing would happen.
  But what actually ends up happening, this was predicted
  and measured, is that there's negative energy states that are created in
  between the plates.
  In other words, there's certain quantum fluctuations that are not
  supportable between
  those plates, and there's a pressure that's created from the pressure
  outside the plates
  versus inside, and the plates compress.
  So basically, that's extracting energy out of the vacuum.
  That's free energy.
  That's not
  disputable.
  That's proven fact.
  So unfortunately, it's not reciprocal.
  Nobody's figured out how to
  make a reciprocating machine.
  You got to reset the plates to get the energy out.
  So that is
  something that's potentially scalable to a battery, perhaps, but it'd be a
  one-shot battery.
  If
  somebody can figure out a way to make that scalable, that would be extremely
  beneficial.
  So those are a couple.
  But just to sort of recap, like the heresies, right?
  So nondisclosure is a universal constant
  of society, this idea of hierarchy of being, cosmism, the esoteric aspect of
  reality being
  at the basis of the space program, and consciousness playing a role in both
  physics and
  metaphysics, where our technology is getting to the point where we can
  perhaps develop a physical
  basis for consciousness, and to develop technologies out of consciousness.
  Which, oh, by the way, any more advanced civilizations probably already
  gotten to, should open, I think,
  our eyes collectively, that there's sort of groupthink going on, and
  opportunities that are right in front of our face are being missed,
  because we're not incorporating these other aspects of reality.
  So in that sense, agnosticism is not like an optional worldview.
[37:35] Jesse Michels:
  Well, Carl, I'll take that plug to the bank.
  I really appreciate it.
  I want to wrap up with you, Diana.
  Peter Thiel was on a,
  Joe Rogan a month ago, and he was asked about aliens, like half the
  conversation was about
  aliens, and he cited your work, which was fascinating.
  And he said that aliens are not
  only probably angels and demons, they have to be angels and demons because
  of the dual-use nature
  of tech and the forcing function nature of tech.
[38:02] Peter Thiel:
  And so the Pazulka literal thing I'd come to is
  the aliens, it's not that they might be demons or angels, they must be
  demons,
  or angels, if you have faster-than-light travel.
  And both of those seem pretty crazy to me.
[38:18] Jesse Michels:
  And so if you have warp drive technology as a delivery mechanism for a
  payload,
  like a nuclear weapon, you can't defend against that.
  And I find it really interesting,
  you talk about St. Francis of Assisi seeing what was probably a craft or an
  orb, a seraphim,
  and the last thing he writes in his diary is the Greek letter tau, which
  means conversion. Yeah.
  And so it was like this forcing function conversion.
  And so in the world in which
  aliens, which are being, at least in the form of UFOs, seen at record levels
  now,
  statistically, or as far as the data goes, is the veil falling?
  The word apocalypse in its original
  Greek means the unveiling.
  Are we seeing these things at a greater preponderance because we're
  living in the apocalypse?
  And what does that mean as far as how we should live our own lives?
[39:09] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah.
  Do you think we're living in a apocalypse?
  I think that there is an unveiling going on, and I think this is a great,
  amazing time.
  So yes,
  I think so.
[39:17] Jesse Michels:
  All right.
  Thank you guys.
  Yeah.
  Thank you, Jesse.
  I'm here with Diana Walsh Pasulka.
  We just had an amazing talk with Colonel Carl Nell,
  and it's funny, in our first conversation, you brought up this concept of
  emergence,
  and this idea that you would get kind of interdisciplinary intersections
  between experts in various fields, which the UFO phenomenon kind of brings
  together,
  Yeah.
  because you can go at it with so many angles.
  And I thought it was a really great conversation
  between a guy who, in a kind of a nuts and bolts, very hard-headed fashion,
  looked through a bunch
  of classified material, came out of that experience on the UAP task force,
  saying,
  I think UFOs are real, and trying to drive a lot of this forward through
  legislature and other
  means.
  And then a religious studies professor who had no interest in UFOs and was
  just objectively
  kind of looking at religious as a phenomena and
  not even looking at it as some underlying metaphysical truth, bumping into
  the UFO phenomena.
  So what did you think about that talk?
[40:24] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  I'm really impressed with his knowledge.
  So not only is he excellent at nuts and bolts and
  looking at the technical aspects of UAP, UFOs, but he knows the whole
  history of religions back to
  Egyptology.
  And he's able to, in a sense, do what I do and what Jacques Vallée did,
  which was look at
  the historical perspective of UFOs and how they affect the world. And I
  think that's a really good point.
  And I'm really impressed with the way he's able to be able to turn a
  historical record and find evidence of
  NHI, UAP, whatever you want to say about it, angels, as they have been
  termed.
  So yeah, I had
  a really great time talking with him.
  And I think that you also added a lot to it because you know
  both sides.
[41:06] Jesse Michels:
  Well, do what I can.
  I appreciate both of you gracing us with your presence.
  And before
  our conversation, Peter Thiel, who's kind of, you know, looking at that,
  he's kind of saying,
  helping host this event did a really interesting talk on the antichrist so
  he's been focusing on the antichrist and he's been talking about it as um
  you know in history you know how has the antichrist been represented when we
  think about the antichrist um how best to conceal being the antichrist well
  that is to talk about it a lot and basically to you know push this this idea
  that uh there's an apocalypse okay and that we are you know we need to save
  save ourselves and do good okay and of course everybody's gonna agree with
  that and that's a great veneer and then he reminds he reminded the audience
  that that's of course how the antichrist presents as the one that is you
  know giving the solution and so i thought that was really
  interesting what do you think about that i thought so too he cites
  thessalonians peace and safety
  being
  the slogan of the antichrist i think you look at a lot of evil that's done
  in today's world
  without getting too specific depending on which side of the aisle you're on
  but it's on it's on
  both sides and um i think you have a lot of today's evil is couched in this
  veneer of kind
  of utilitarian effective altruism world is my sandbox i'm going to you know
  uh rearrange the
  figures you know on on a global scale and like make things sort of work out
  and that is sort of
  a form of evil it's also outward looking so it's never inward looking like
  am i doing bad or am i harming people you know and you met renee yeah yeah i
  love his theories i'm a gerardian too
  and gerard always says you know to even spot a scapegoat you need a third
  party witness
  because nobody thinks that they're doing the scapegoating and in fact we're
  doing scapegoating
  all day long and the the history of humanity is the history of human
  violence and that all of us
  have sort of you know greedy you know you know you know you know you know
  you know you know you know
  greedy impulses and there's obviously violence up until you know murder and
  large-scale war and
  stuff but we do small violence to one another all the time through memetic
  desires and jealousy and that sort of thing and we have to look inward yeah
  that's right so um his professor was renee gerard and i was at berkeley at
  the time at the jesuit school of theology and and peter was at stanford and
  so while he was taking these classes i was actually driving to renee
  gerard's colloquiums to listen to him and i so i had been exposed to his
  theories when i was an undergraduate at the university of california davis
  and his book violence in the sacred kind of broke through and really
  destabilized a lot of different disciplines and a lot of people didn't like
  it because it was such a giant theory of everything right it was really a
  theory of everything like a theory of evil right and and he renee gerard is
  a was a catholic right and he would attend a Philadelphia university of
  california university of california university of california believe it was
  latin mass and so the jesuits that i was taking courses from they didn't
  want to go themselves because there was something kind of heretical about
  renee gerard because there was no they they said there wasn't anything
  really transcendent about christ for renee gerard that he looked at evil as
  anthrop like an anthropology like you know that we were you know we there
  was no transcendent or metaphysical evil that he spoke of i think what's so
  heretical about gerard is
  and why he was so sort of not accepted both by religious scholars or by you
  know evolutionary
  biologists in his time is because he has this sort of theory of everything
  you know this kind
  of proto-architecture like to religion and so that's like real heresy yes it
  absolutely is
  right yeah and we talked about that earlier in the context of plato maybe
  another person
  who has this kind of proto-architecture yeah of religion so we were talking
  you know off
  camera before this you were saying you know you interpret plato maybe
  slightly differently than
  kind of uh quote unquote uh philosophers or scholars that's right yeah yeah
  so of course i read plato you know early on as an undergraduate and again as
  a graduate student but i really didn't start actually reading plato until i
  encountered the people who believed in ufos and i saw the um the ways in
  which ufos have been you know concealed by our government within this
  environment where i witnessed harassment firsthand saw people who were the
  quote-unquote whistleblowers being harassed and you know it's not pretty
  it's terrible and i was depressed so i thought you know how do i make sense
  of this and so plato's republic kept coming back into my head and plato by
  the way he asked the question can there be a just society and why he asks
  this is because he's pretty horrified by what happened to his mentor his
  mentor was killed by his government which was athens and his and socrates
  was given it out he didn't take it instead he said i live by the laws of
  athens and i'll die by them and this is just this is right well plato didn't
  buy that it seems he has a dialogue between socrates and glaucon and they
  ask the question can we have a just government and they go through all these
  ridiculous scenarios he's saying that no it doesn't look like we can figure
  out how to have a just government how do we do it well then he performs it
  he does a performative thing at the the end of the Republic.
[46:39] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  And so what does he give us?
  He gives us two things that we call
  allegories or metaphors.
  One is the allegory of the cave.
  People are, you know, see shadows on
  the wall.
  And they think that this and people are showing them these shadows, by the
  way.
  So we tend
  not to know, we tend to discount that there are other people that are like,
  or things that are
  showing us these shadows, and we are thinking that they're reality.
  And somehow we get out and we
  ascend out of the cave.
  And we recognize that, wow, most people are completely blinded by this,
  okay?
  So how does this work then?
  And so then he like throws in basically the first recorded or one
  of the first recorded NDEs, which is the myth of Ur, which is about the
  soldier who dies in battle
  and has a near death experience and sees that people actually, you know,
  live again, they're
  immortal, they have some kind of soul.
  And so he tells this story.
  Well, those are two very strange
  ways to end this book. And so he tells us, you know, there are two very
  strange ways to end this
  book. And so he tells us, you know, there are two very strange ways to end
  this book. And so he
  tells us, you know, there are two very strange ways to end this book. And so
  he tells us, you know,
  there are two very strange ways to end this book. And so he tells us, you
  know, there are two very
  strange ways to end this book. And so he tells us, you know, there are two
  very strange ways to end
  this book.
  And so he tells us, you know, there are two very strange ways to end this
  book.
  And so
  when I'd asked my professors, you know, what does this mean?
  Because I went back to them, and I
  even asked my friends who are philosophers, so what do you think about this?
  Ah, it's just a
  metaphor.
  It's just an allegory.
  Well, I don't think it is.
  So what's then the takeaway?
  The
  takeaway is a performative thing.
  It's nothing that you can say, Jesse, do this, and it'll be
  all right.
  No, you have to actually do it.
  What is it?
  Well, it's basically creating a community
  of people like the other person.
  So, you know, it's called a dialectic and it's a form, it's a
  mystical conversation basically, which is really hard for us to wrap our
  brains around.
  What does
  it even mean to have a mystical conversation?
  I think that if people are watching this talk,
  they've had a mystical conversation, right?
  And you have too.
  It's like, think of those times when
  you met that person who's like your best friend and every time you saw them,
  the energy would
  change, you know, and you'd have such an amazing talk.
  That's what he's talking about.
  That kind
  of community, community based on that, because wouldn't you die for that
  person?
  You know,
  wouldn't you do those things that are noble before that friendship?
  Okay.
  So that's the
  kind of thing that he's giving us.
[48:53] Jesse Michels:
  That's amazing.
  Well, yeah.
  And I think a lot of Plato readers think of him as fully allegorical
  and they don't think there's some metaphysical architecture that he's
  actually talking about.
  Like the myth of air, I think is a great example.
  So the cave is another example, but in the case
  of the myth of air, he's talking about this myth where you have an amnesis,
  you have this idea
  that there's this primordial soul self that kind of has knowledge of all of
  your incarnations.
  And then,
  you cross the river of forgetfulness into, you know, an incarnation where
  you forget your former
  self.
  And maybe through kind of a near death experience or a mystery ritual, which
  by the way,
  Plato, we probably now know went through the Eleusinian mystery rituals
  himself. That's right.
  And so he probably believed this, like to all the people that think it's
  just an allegory,
  you know, then you experience noesis, you regain knowledge of your kind of
  immortal soul.
  Do you think that literal reading of Plato?
  Is it an important kind of overlay that is missing in today's reading?
[49:58] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  I think that a lot.
  So, you know, I went through graduate school and of course, any kind of
  literalist reading of any of these texts is abhorred.
  So people are going to say, no, you can't read it literally like that.
  And I know, okay.
  Okay.
  So, yeah.
  Did he really mean it this way?
  Well, not necessarily literally there's a cave, you know, but he meant it in
  a very real sense and that's what I'm trying to, to,
  to get at here and, um, and yes, there's, you know, this goes against the
  grain of, of both liberal and conservative readings of Plato, right?
  It's a completely mystical reading here.
  It goes beyond even, you know, some people read it as this is the
  subjectivity of, you know, human subjectivity.
  It goes beyond that because it poses something other than the human itself
  or himself or herself.
  Um, so, so yeah.
  So another.
  Thing too, is that the early Christians actually utilize this text.
  So in, uh, you know, we've found now in the 1940s, we found a lot of
  libraries of the early Christians and we got an insight into what, you know,
  influenced them.
  Well, the allegory of the cave and Plato's Republic influenced them, you
  know, so they found something very transcendent, transcendent and very.
  Jesus like right in these texts.
  So it's a linear.
  You see, I didn't know that.
  Yeah.
[51:25] Jesse Michels:
  Wow.
  What's are there examples of kind of connections between early Christianity
  and I guess Martin Luther King, I think wrote, uh, an essay about the pagan
  continuity hypothesis.
  And so I, you know, there's this idea that even the last supper might have
  been kind of a, a mystery ritual of sorts.
  Elaine Pagels also writes about that. That's right.
  Yeah.
[51:46] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  So we're learning.
  So a lot of people think that Christianity is set and it doesn't change.
  Right.
  Well, archeology is showing us a material culture.
  Yeah.
  It's showing us so many things that we are learning about the early
  Christians.
  And also I would suggest that the Greek Orthodox church really does actually
  know about this connection between Socrates and the Greeks, you know, the
  Greek Socratic philosophers basically, and this lineage that goes directly
  into Christianity, early Christianity.
  It's a Hellenized Judaism, right?
  So it's a Judaism that's completely infused with Greek thought.
  Like you look at the apostle Paul, um, all of the.
  Greek, um, all of the scriptures of Christianity are Greek are written in
  Greek.
  Okay.
  So, so, so yes, this, this makes sense.
[52:31] Jesse Michels:
  Wasn't Paul supposedly, according to some scholars, kind of a Kabbalist too.
  Like he was, uh, in the Merkabah kind of, um, you know, Ezekiel tradition.
[52:40] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  It looks like it, I mean, you know, I'm not a new Testament scholar, so I
  don't want to go out on a limb and say for sure, you know, that was, but
  yeah, if you look at his, you know, his conversion, it looks similar to
  Merkabah, you know.
  So, uh, and I do have friends who are new Testament scholars and they won't
  come, they don't feel comfortable coming out and saying these things, but
  they'll tell me in secret, they'll say, yeah, yeah.
  You know, Jesus too, by the way.
  And I'm like, really?
  Why don't you write a book about that?
[53:06] Jesse Michels:
  No, he goes up on a cloud.
[53:08] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  That's right.
  That's right.
  Yeah.
[53:09] Jesse Michels:
  It's, it's amazing how much some of these kind of, uh, esoteric religious
  practices actually comport.
  Like if you look at the, uh, heck alone, the palaces of, you know, Jewish
  Kabbalism or whatever you have.
  Seven of these palaces.
  Well, in Egypt, you had the, uh, REIT, you know, the S the seven, and then,
  you know, in Rosicrucianism, you know, he goes up through seven levels and,
  you know, he, he has to leave a garment behind on each level at each level.
  You always encounter kind of, uh, you know, these different beings, um, you
  know, some are good, some are bad, but they sort of, you know, are all
  testing you. That's right.
  So it's very fascinating.
[53:45] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  So we're talking about this tradition, this Merkabah tradition that
  seemingly talks about a.
  A form of community, if not a government, a form of community, ecclesia,
  right?
  That's the, the early church Greek term for the community, right?
  That's based on these connections with Merkabah, Seraphim, what have you,
  these kinds of, uh, knowledge bearers, messengers of God.
  Right.
  And so how does that, what, how would that look today?
[54:20] Jesse Michels:
  That's a great question.
  I don't know how.
  How would it look today, Diana?
[54:24] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Well, I think that, I think that we're seeing it now.
  I think we're seeing the very beginnings of this type of recognition that
  they're, you know, with UFOs.
  Yeah.
  That's what I think's going on.
  Yeah.
  And there's, you know, this recognition that we're not alone.
  Okay.
  And I mean, that was the premise for a lot of those schools was that we're
  not alone, but you have to get right with these things. Yeah.
  Okay.
  So that's what, that's the whole idea was they were looking inward, so they
  weren't looking outward.
  So the whole tradition.
  Yeah.
  Like a Paul, he changes his name because, you know, think about his
  conversion.
  It was, he was Saul and he was living a life of violence of all things,
  right?
  He was very violent.
  Now, why he was violent, I don't know, but he was persecuting and wanting
  Christians to die.
  And then he has this Merkabah situation that he seemingly didn't cultivate,
  right?
  It happened just spontaneously to him, it seems, you know, at least from his
  position.
  He didn't call it into his life.
  And then it changes.
  And he changes his name and then he works for these communities.
  He gives his life to the formation of these communities.
[55:29] Jesse Michels:
  So how should one, an average person sort of conceptualize this stuff?
  Because, you know, it seems like if you read like William James, there's
  kind of an outer ring of religious people that don't truly believe in the
  metaphysical kind of architecture underneath the religion.
  They just kind of show up to church or synagogue or mosque and they kind of
  pray and they do the daily rituals.
  Maybe it's this Pascal's wager for them where it's this like
  hyper-rationalism.
  If I do this thing, maybe there's an afterlife.
  And then you have these mystics that sort of go straight at the truth.
  But that seems kind of dangerous from like a, you know, institutional power
  structure perspective.
  Like often these mystics are misinterpreted or clamped down on by human
  power structures.
  And then even in a more primordial sense or whatever, there's the parable of
  the four rabbis who all try to go up into the heavens and like, you know,
  one goes mad, two die.
  And like, am I?
  Am I?
  Am I?
  Am I botching this?
  But like one makes it, right?
  And so it's this like extremely straight and narrow treacherous path.
[56:28] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yes.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah, it is.
[56:30] Jesse Michels:
  So like, why should anybody take that path?
[56:32] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  No, I totally agree.
  I'm in agreement with that.
  But when students do come through my classes, you know, I teach basic, you
  know, survey of religions, you know, kind of thing.
  And when we were in the Christianity section, I'm in the South.
  So there are lots of Christians in my class.
  You know, they go to church.
  And so I say, why do you go to church?
  And they don't know.
  Right.
  And I say, you know, what about this part of the Bible where, you know, it's
  talking about this angel or that angel and, you know, this and that.
  And they're like, well, that doesn't happen anymore.
  Right.
  And so I think that they're, you know, so I try to get them to interrogate,
  you know, their own religion.
  Like, what does it say?
  Why are you Christian?
  You know, or why are you Jewish?
  Like, why are you doing this?
  You know, is it just because this is your the cultural tradition, your
  heritage?
  Because it could be.
  And that's fair.
  Fair enough.
  OK.
  Yeah.
  But what I really liked about Carl Nell's talk at the SALT conference was
  that he basically did the same thing.
  And I thought it was really interesting.
  But he did the same thing of, well, you know, you're talking you're talking
  to religious people who are religious.
  And all of a sudden they're confronted with the reality that what they think
  is this metaphysical thing is actually real.
  Well, that's going to be a shock for them.
[57:46] Colonel Carl Nell:
  Are you implying that perhaps we as a society may not be ready for
  disclosure?
  I guess I would.
  I would draw an analogy, though, for people who believe in a certain faith
  tradition, whatever that faith tradition is, and hold to that and subscribe
  to that in a very serious and devout way and sort of pose the question, even
  for folks of that ilk, and I would count myself as one, if you're confronted
  with the reality of your religious belief system, like the reality of the
  metaphysical, an angel, a messenger from God, what have you, that's going to
  be a shock.
[58:21] UNKNOWN:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
[58:22] Colonel Carl Nell:
  That's going to be a sea state change in your way of dealing with reality,
  right, even though you already believe it, right?
  So it's one thing to believe, and it's another to know.
  And I think in this context, this phenomena has an analogous, the potential
  for an analogous effect, both on the individual and on society.
[58:40] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  And I was actually shocked that he said it.
  And I was like, wow, that's kind of what I say to students, but never in
  this, never so bluntly, like never like, no, this is a reality.
  And I was like, wow, that's kind of what I say to students, but never so
  bluntly, like never so bluntly, like never so bluntly, like never so
  bluntly, like never so bluntly, like never so bluntly, like never so
  bluntly, you know, because I can't really say that.
  Because I can't really say that.
  I, you know, maybe it's reality.
  Maybe it's not a reality.
  But there's whole tradition of it.
[58:59] Jesse Michels:
  Yeah, well, it's still like one of these things where believing this stuff,
  you know, it can either sort of burn you or save you.
  Like, it feels like even angels themselves are kind of misinterpreted as
  these like cherubic friendly beings, you know, in the modern day.
  in the modern day.
  And in fact, if you look historically at angel interactions
  that a lot of which you write about,
  these can be extremely violent
  and they can deal with you very harshly
  and they can set you on a path
  that might be sort of more morally pure.
  They might excavate sort of bad things that leave you
  and you become better or whatever,
  but it can be extremely painful in the process.
[59:36] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yes, I think so.
  So one of the things that was shocking to me
  when I first started doing this was the reality
  that the government was looking into it as real,
  whereas I was looking into it as truly historical,
  metaphorical, not real, okay?
  Then I recognized that a lot of people felt like
  it was their duty to contact these things, right?
  And that, again, that brought me to another level of like,
  what a bad idea, you know, because historically,
  well, here's an example.
  So when I first started corresponding with aerospace people,
  people in aerospace,
  corporations and things like that,
  they wanted the data,
  like they wanted to know what did European Catholics see
  when they saw an angel or a demon or something like that.
  Did they have any effects?
  Like what kind of effects did they have
  on their bodies and things like that?
  And did they have any,
  did they report like other types of effects?
  Well, yeah, all that data is there.
  So, you know, I started to look at it
  and I met Gary Nolan.
  So I met Gary Nolan pretty early on, probably about 2014.
  And he shared with me his own research.
  So he had been recruited just as I was being recruited.
  He was also recruited to work with people who were,
  you know, in the program, I guess you could call it,
  or I don't know how really to discuss it.
  You know, he was, the government was looking into UAPs
  and he was a person who could help, okay?
  So they recruited him.
  And I got to see some of the research that he was doing.
  And some of it had to do with the effects that it had on people.
  And they were like radiation burns and things like that.
  So looking through the historical record,
  I saw that indeed there were cases
  where people reported being hurt, you know, in this way.
  So yeah, so it's not the best idea then to just decide
  that this is something you're gonna undertake.
  And I never propose that, by the way.
  I always say, learn about it, but don't engage in doing it.
  Like I propose for people, if they're interested,
  if they actually have their own religious tradition,
  check it out.
  Go back to it and look at it again.
  So if it's Judaism, go back to it.
  There's a rich heritage.
  Buddhism, same thing, go back to it.
  There's a rich heritage.
  My religion, Catholicism, go back to it.
  There's a rich heritage there.
  So I think that's probably the best way to start looking at it.
[1:02:02] Jesse Michels:
  And it's so fascinating that contemporary aerospace,
  you know, people are reaching out to you,
  as well as, you know, people from NASA.
  It does feel like we're on the precipice of kind of this new age
  where a lot of this stuff seems to be coming out.
  Because the conventional history of a lot of these programs
  and companies are just, you know, chemical combustion,
  nuts and bolts, you know, it's all kind of this materialist,
  reductionist science.
  But in fact, I think when you speak to a lot of the people
  at these organizations, they're extremely open-minded.
  And it's almost like science cleaved off in like the 50s or 60s.
  And hit a cul-de-sac in kind of academia.
  And then aerospace just kept going.
  But it's this, also, you have this religious valence
  on top of it, as well, where like the early NASA missions
  had, you know, Horus and Osiris.
  And it was like, I mean, you told me in our last interview,
  right, it was like Greek and Latin, you know, on symbology.
[1:03:03] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Latin, first century Latin.
[1:03:05] Jesse Michels:
  First century Latin, that's right.
[1:03:07] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  The empire.
[1:03:08] Jesse Michels:
  The empire.
  Why do you think?
  Why do you think they kind of were paying homage to that tradition?
[1:03:14] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah, that's such a great question.
  So first, I don't know. Yeah.
  OK, nobody would ever give me a straight answer.
  Yeah.
  But I did ask.
[1:03:22] Jesse Michels:
  Do you think there was somebody in charge who was like,
  yeah, like, I know that the Greeks had it right.
  And you have to sort of deal with these NHI in order to get to space.
  And like, this is the program.
  Or do you think it was some emergent thing that like,
  they were kind of softly in touch?
  Maybe that's an unanswerable question.
  I don't know.
[1:03:40] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  I believe that.
  So my own opinion about this is just my opinion.
  After looking and talking to people that are, you know,
  the people that are doing it, actually, you know, doing.
  OK, so they would tell me that this was a way to pay homage to the sponsors.
  They call them the sponsors.
  And you know, I'd ask, do they read Latin, you know, kind of thing?
  Like, really?
  And they would say, absolutely.
  I think that it's a large tradition that
  goes unacknowledged in our history.
[1:04:14] Jesse Michels:
  And you think it's sort of hermetically past?
[1:04:16] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Oh, for sure.
  Absolutely it is.
  Yes, yes.
[1:04:18] Jesse Michels:
  But that's fascinating, because that's sort of tying today's space program
  to like maybe, you know, hermetically sealed, you know, Egyptian traditions.
  Like how far back does this go?
  It's amazing.
[1:04:31] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah, I know.
  I mean, it's definitely, it's not a Christianized veneer.
  So if you go to the Russian Cosmos tradition, which is a similar tradition,
  you know, where they believe in.
  And you know, like, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky believed in NHI, and that he was,
  you know,
  he believed in this, and he wrote books about it.
  And he's the father of Russian rocketry.
  They're Christian, they have kind of a Christian overlay to this or
  framework, but, you know,
  we have Jack Parsons, definitely not a Christian.
  But then you do have the same, you know, you have the impetus that stays
  there.
  It's not as weird as Jack Parsons, but it's weird enough.
  It's definitely not Christian.
  It seems to be Greco-Roman, you know, with the recognition that there are
  these deities, right?
  You know, and does it go back to Egypt?
  I don't know.
  I don't know.
  You know, I am not an insider, so I don't have an inside track.
  I just can spot the myth that's being called a myth, but it's actually real.
  That they're like, you know, they are doing this intentionally.
[1:05:37] Jesse Michels:
  Well, I think that's kind of this myth.
  I think that's kind of this myth in disclosure overall, because, like, both
  of us are on
  the outside, but we've like poked, you know, we've poked around like we have
  like a decent
  mental map that's probably like better than just the average person who's
  like not really,
  you know, interested in this stuff.
  Right.
  And like my serious inclination now that was not the case a few years ago is
  that there's
  like no one in charge or that like if it is, there is something in charge.
  It's this like loosely distributed weird thing that's like emerging.
  It has like a mind of its own.
  And maybe there are some people kind of tapped into deeper layers of
  reality, but it's certainly
  not commensurate with some clear clearance system or classification system
  within the government.
[1:06:24] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  No, it's not.
  Yeah.
  That's okay.
  So I'm fully on board with that theory.
  And, you know, because you can't we can't prove it, can we?
  Yeah.
  But it's just a theory.
  But I'll give you some examples.
[1:06:33] Jesse Michels:
  But we've met enough people who like people on the outside are like, that's
  the deep state
  architect of the.
  Yeah.
  Godfather of the UFO stuff.
  And like we meet them and they're like, well, they don't know a lot of stuff
  that this other
  person knows.
  You know, there's like a lot of that going on. Yeah.
  A lot of it.
[1:06:49] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  So that made me actually think about the oral tradition of it because I was
  around enough
  people to know that they figured out their missions not from asking people
  or having
  someone tell them they had to figure it out on their own.
  And that process was hard for them.
  And they didn't even know that they got it right.
  Until they got an award for it like two years later.
  Yeah.
  So they didn't know.
  And they would also tell me things like, well, people were on this mission,
  but they never
  knew until they got the the you know, the the card or not the card, the
  patch.
  Yeah.
  Until they got the patch or whatnot.
  Or, you know, they figured it out.
  And so I was beginning to see it as when I I have friends that are
  indigenous and they
  occasionally tell me a couple of things, you know, about their work.
  Right.
  worldview and the way that Australian Aboriginal culture works, right?
  And apparently, there's
  like a very succinct and transmissible oral tradition that is really old,
  like, you know,
  what, 30,000 years old or something like that.
  And it has to do with, you know, NHI and things
  like that.
  And so I began to see our space program like that, like, wow, that's how it
  works.
  There's
  an oral tradition that's transmitted, but it's not transmitted through this
  memo, you know?
  So
  the declassified memos, what do they really mean, you know, when there's
  this type of tradition?
[1:08:19] Jesse Michels:
  Yeah, well, all the memos seem like they're kind of groping in the dark, and
  they don't really know
  what these things are.
  I'm a big fan of this mid-century inventor, Townsend Brown, who we
  talked about earlier with Carl Nell.
  And he says it's like, you know, fish in the water.
  They don't
  know, you know, they just see the holes in the ships over top, but they have
  no idea what those
  ships are transporting.
  Or why they're there.
  And that really, you know, feels like where we're at.
  But you bring up this
  idea of a patch.
  What do you mean by that?
[1:08:48] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Okay, so the patches.
  So in the Space Force, or whatever we call it today, you know, where people
  are on missions to send things up into space, satellites or what have you,
  they work on these,
  these, and they get these patches.
  Okay, so a lot of people know about these patches.
  They have a
  Roman god on them or something like that.
  And they usually have the Latin that describes the, the mission, but in a
  way that's really opaque,
  and even making fun of outsiders, right?
  So this is the mission, you could even, you know,
  go online and see a lot of those patches.
  And I've known someone to have like,
  at least 150 of these patches.
  Yeah.
  So this is a person whose whole life has been doing this work.
  Wow.
[1:09:34] Jesse Michels:
  Well, I think about the person you,
  you pseudonymously named Tyler in your book, and he's this NASA mission
  controller.
  It seems like
  he's using kind of consciousness protocols to make the launches work.
  He's this very interesting
  figure.
  But then he goes to the Vatican with you, and he has this conversion
  experience.
  And it's
  almost as if what he looks into in the Vatican archives confirms that his,
  the work that he's
  been doing is somehow mystical and like way more like globally meaningful
  than just this,
  nuts and bolts, like we're putting satellites in space sort of thing.
[1:10:11] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah, that was really an amazing experience for me to witness the conversion
  that he went through.
  We started at the Vatican looking at the, the records of Joseph of
  Copertino,
  and a bilocating sister, Maria Vagrada.
  And we also had exposure to Peter Gumpel,
  who had been a papal advisor, he's a Jesuit, talked a lot about the
  Templars, by the way.
  Interesting.
  Yeah.
  And, um.
[1:10:39] Jesse Michels:
  Do you remember what he said about the Templars?
[1:10:41] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  I do.
  Okay.
[1:10:43] Jesse Michels:
  Moving on.
[1:10:45] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  So that's where it started.
  So he started to, to re-examine his life, I guess.
  Yeah.
  And I could see that process because I've seen it before.
  And I had a feeling that when we got to
  Castle Gandolfo at the Vatican Observatory, where he was going to meet
  astrophysicist monks.
  And,
  you know, those people that live like that, they have, you know, that's, you
  know, that's, you know,
  you know, that's their mission and their mission is fused.
  It fuses religion and science.
  I knew
  that that, that would be his place and that he would probably convert at
  that point.
  And I was
  right.
  So then we left the Vatican and we went there and then he spent a lot of
  time in the
  archives looking at Copernicus and Kepler, uh, and, you know, originals, by
  the way, and also,
  uh, looking at, uh, electromagnetism. It's amazing.
  And things like that.
  And I just like, couldn't get them out of the archive, just like glued to
  these books.
[1:11:43] Jesse Michels:
  It's incredible.
  And the other thing I wanted to follow up on from our first interview
  is you said this remarkable thing and I kind of like, just, I don't know, I
  ignored it.
  Bad interviewer in my case or something, because you said this really
  profound thing.
  You said that
  when you went with Tyler to the Vatican Observatory, they knew who he was
  before
  having gone there.
  And that tripped me out when I was watching it over in the edit, because I
  was
  like, oh my God, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's,
  that's, that's, that's, that's,
  why does the Vatican Observatory, they're obviously very well respected and
  well staffed
  when it comes to real astronomy, but how do they know who a NASA mission
  controller from the US is?
[1:12:18] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah, not only that, but when we were there, we just happened to correspond
  with a,
  that, a trip that, um, all these young scientists from ESA, so the European
  Space Agency,
  they were all there too.
  And so brother Guy, who's the director, Guy Consolmagno, he was, he was
  a really awesome tour and talk and everything.
  So he introduced us.
  And so he introduced me and
  they were like, hmm, you know, kind of cool, clap, clap, clap.
  And they introduced Tyler
  with his real name and the whole place just erupted into just, yes, like
  that.
  And that
  was a recognition for me that Americans kind of don't know what's going on,
  but they did.
  Yeah,
  they were, to, to them, he was a hero.
  Yeah.
  It was really, really, really, really, really, really,
  really, really cool.
[1:13:08] Jesse Michels:
  That's incredible.
  The other interesting connection with Tyler is he
  met Chris Bledsoe, I think, or before you.
[1:13:15] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah, that's right.
  Yes, he did.
  Yeah.
[1:13:17] Jesse Michels:
  And they had a relationship and I think, uh, Ryan Bledsoe, who's Chris's son
  said that, um,
  Tyler had told Chris that he was part of a group with Townsend Brown, who I
  just mentioned.
  So
  Townsend Brown's this like fascinating mid-century inventor who I think, you
  know, made more
  discoveries in the world of gravity than meet the eye, you know, might've,
  you know, might've
  tied gravity and electromagnetism together.
  And that has implications for time as well,
  because if you can shift gravity at all, you can shift time and general
  relativity.
  And he would talk in his private life constantly about time travel.
  And so what I found just so fascinating is Tyler tells the Bledsoes that he
  was involved with a
  group that was based in Nassau and the Bahamas.
  And Townsend Brown was the president of this
  group and time travel technology was involved.
  And I would totally discount that.
  And
  think that's probably wrong if I didn't know so much about Townsend Brown.
  And I know he spent a
  ton of time in Nassau and the Bahamas and with a very interesting kind of
  cast of characters.
[1:14:17] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Well, you know, that's so fascinating because when I knew Tyler, he was
  always, he was
  always talking about time travel and yeah, whenever a new movie about time
  travel would
  come out, he would go see it like the adjustment bureau.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah. That's fascinating.
  Yeah.
  So, um, I mean, wow. That's amazing.
  It seems like we both know.
  So you're kind of like the, the person who talks about, uh,
  Brown, right.
  And then he's an invisible where he was until you.
  Right.
  And then when I met Tyler,
  that's what I thought.
  I thought more people have to know about this person because he's an
  invisible,
  but he impacts so much of our history and we don't even know it.
[1:15:00] Jesse Michels:
  That's the way.
  Yes.
  I felt the same way.
  I felt like it was my duty or something.
  Cause he,
  he died penniless and I'm confused.
  Vince, his work made it into the B2 stealth bomber, like premieres, you
  know, stealth
  bomber, you know, and he was, he was paid off by this finance here at
  Northrop Grumman, like
  a ridiculously low sum of money for the rest of his life.
  And, and, and then not even that,
  I mean, I think he literally like unified the field experimentally.
[1:15:24] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  And so like everybody knows who even test Tesla got ripped off, but people
  know who he is and he has a great car company named after him today.
[1:15:32] Jesse Michels:
  Nobody knew who this guy was and, and he, he created,
  he was such a Patriot.
  He was such an American.
  Patriot, you know, it was cold war era.
  And so these discoveries obviously have implications for,
  you know, weaponry and all sorts of other things.
  And so he created tons of disinfo about his own
  work to throw people off the trail.
  And so he kind of died penniless and obscurity on Catalina
  island.
  And yeah.
  So you felt that Steve, you felt the same duty with Tyler.
[1:16:00] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  I don't know what I felt.
  I felt a sense that you have like a sense of
  injustice kind of, you know, that we want the world to be
  transparent.
  Let me give you something.
  This can be something that, um, I think is,
  is relevant.
  Um, during the time that I knew Tyler, uh, there were other people like him
  and visibles, like I called them the invisibles.
  Right.
  And one of them had passed away.
  And this
  is a person whose family didn't even know what they did.
  So there was a big sense of sadness
  on their part because they, they couldn't eulogize him correctly.
  They felt because they did not know.
  And so Tyler actually asked me if I
  would help them write the eulogy.
  So I did, I wrote the eulogy and during the time period of
  writing, it was so emotional because I was like, wow, you know, how, how do
  I say this?
  You know?
  So I helped them, I helped them write it.
  And, uh, they really, they reached out to me afterwards
  and they were, uh, it was consoling to them because they, cause someone
  outside the family
  recognize their pain.
[1:17:00] Jesse Michels:
  That's so amazing.
  Wow.
  Yeah.
  Well, do you think that these invisibles are sort of outing themselves?
[1:17:07] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  It seems like some, yeah, it seems like they're, they're done with this kind
  of life.
  Right.
  And they want to, but, um, but again, you know, we talked about the reasons
  why I had to go back
  and look back at Plato's Republic, which was a text written through trauma,
  the trauma of
  a government killing Socrates, the mentor of Plato, like a teacher who was a
  wisdom teacher.
  He wasn't doing anybody any harm.
  Um, so in that context, maybe the, the whistleblowers should be,
  should maintain secrecy.
  I don't know.
  I think that, uh, it's not a great outlook to tell you the truth.
  I mean, in the long run it is,
  but there's a, a, a spot that's bad.
  It's really bad.
  And most of the time is bad, right?
  So
  Christians are told, you know, the world's not for you.
  This place is not for you.
  I mean,
  really that's what Christianity suggests.
  And in a sense, that's what Plato's Republic suggests too,
  because is everybody going to do the dialectic with each other and kind of,
  do no, no, nobody cares to do it.
  But so do you see what I'm saying?
  There,
  there are groups of people who do, you know, does it have to be for
  everyone?
[1:18:16] Jesse Michels:
  No, there's no sort of universal fate and, uh, one needs to sort of save
  themselves and,
  but do that in a sort of maybe communal way.
  I think you have to do it in a communal way.
[1:18:28] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  I mean, even Buddha said so, right?
  He said that
  there were three keys to Buddhism.
  One is that you can do it.
  The other one is, um, the Dharma,
  which is the teachings.
  Yeah.
  And the teaching is, could be anything, right?
  It doesn't have to be a scripture.
  Um, it could
  be an event that teaches.
  You could be having kids by the way.
  You know, it's a really great
  way to like learn about life and yourself.
  Um, so there's the Dharma, but of course there's the
  Sangha and you can only do it in a group because you have each other to help
  each other.
[1:18:56] Jesse Michels:
  That's fascinating.
  Well, I think that's the perfect note to end on.
  Diana, I really appreciate
  your time and it's been a great day, kind of a marathon and, uh, yeah, I'm
  excited to see what,
  what happens in both in UFO world, but also in the world at large.
  Cause we're in very,
  there's a, there's a, uh, Confucian proverb, you know, it's like better to
  live in
  interesting times than good times or something.
[1:19:18] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  And that's right.
  I guess we definitely live in
  interesting times.
[1:19:21] Jesse Michels:
  Yeah.
  We can rationalize our world by saying that.
[1:19:23] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Well, anyway,
  thanks for talking with me, Jesse.
  It's always fun to talk with you.
[1:19:27] Jesse Michels:
  It was a blast.
[1:19:28] Diana Walsh Pasulka:
  Yeah.