|

LU)
ED
[es
<3

[
[
ies
CD
OD
CO
C

[UE
3

UNIV.OF
[ORONT0
LIBRARY

Digitized Dy the Internet Archive
In 2007 with funding from
Microsoft Corporation

httDJ/NWW.archive.ora/details/ethiopicversiono00charuoift

Auetiloty
EP

GXoniesiy

EE PINE P TEN EERON
OF

PEN

THE

OE

EDITED

FROM

PONERES

JWENITF-IHREE

TOGETHER

THE

FRAGMENTARY

JMS.

WITH

GREEK

AND

LATIN

VERSIONS

BY

RI

FINN TES

M.A.)

GRINFIELD

LECIURER

ON

THE

D.D,

AND

PROFESSOR

OF

BIBLICAL

LATE

FELLOW

REEF

OF

SEPIUAGINT,

THE

GREEK,

BRITISH

COLLEGE,

OXFORD

COLLEGE,

DUBLIN

ACADEMY

@xfoth
EVAR BNDON
1000

EXETER
TRINITY

BRS

ey

HENRY FROWDE, M.A.
PUBLISHER TO THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD
LONDON,
NEW

YORK

EDINBURGH
AND

TORONTO

PREFACE
THis new text of the Ethiopic Version has been the labour of many
years. It is practically exhaustive; for no pains have been spated to
secure a first-hand and complete knowledge of the MSS. evidence.
1 have not, however, restricted myself to the mere task of publishing
the Ethiopic Version

as it is found

in the best MSS.;

for this Version,

even when first made, cxhibited many unintelligible passages, which
were due either to the mistakes of the Ethiopic translator, or to the
corruptions of the Greek text before him, or to the mistakes of the
Greek translator, or ultimately to corruptions of the Hebrew text before
the Greek translator. With these various sources of corruption 1 have
sought to deal: in some cases, IT think, with indubitable success: in
others, my reconstructions ate at the best merely provisional and tentative.
In this work Halcvy led the way and made a permanent
contribution,

but

many

of his reconstructions

were

valueless from the

outset as they were based on Dillmann’s inadequate text of 1853. As
a result of these studies I have abandoned the view that Enoch was
originally written in Hebrew, and come to the conclusion that, like
Daniel, it was written partly in Aramaic and partly in Hebrew.
The Greek and Latin fragments have been printed in patallel
columns with the Ethiopic Version and their relations with it have
been fully discussed in the Introduction.
The Ethiopic text has been printed directly from a photograph of
the chief MS. £ with the necessary corrections from other MSS.; but
the orthography of this MS. has been nearly always adhered to, although
it very frequently confuses the aspirates and sibilants.

iv

PREFACE
In a work

of this nature,

where

sometimes

Soo acts of collation and verification, mistakes

in a bage

there

are

are inevitable, and, where

such do occut, L can only ask for the kind indulgence of the student.
My best thanks are due to the late Mme. d Abbadie for permission
to collate four MSS. and photograph two others that were at Abbadia
to the librarian of the British Museum for permission to photograph
its

ten

MSS.

of Enoch;

to

the

librarians

of the

Paris

and

Munich

Libraries for the courtesy with which they lent the Ethiopic MSS. in
their charge to the Bodleian Library for my use; to the librarian of
the Berlin Library for the loan of its splendid MS. together with Dermission to photograph it; to the librarian of the Vatican for permission

to photograph its M5. of Enochi to Baron von Westenholtz of
Hamburg and Mr. Garrett of Philadelphia fot having lent for my
private use their M55. of Enoch through the kind offices of Dr. Enno
Littmann; to my niece Madeleine La Vie Charles for much help in
making the Index Graecitatis; to Mr. A. E. Cowley for revising the
reconstructions of the Semitic original in the first thirty chapters; and,
lastly, to the Trustees of the Revised Version Surplus Fund for a subvention towards the expenses incurred in my expedition to Abbadia at the
foot of the Pyrenees.
Finally, IL cannot conclude without expressing my deep gratitude to
the officials, and especially to the readers and compositors, of the Press
for their skilled services in the publication of this text.

KR. H:, CHARLES:
17 BRADMORE ROAD
OXFORD

CONVENES
INTRODUCTION s—=

PAGE

$ 1. The Book of Enoch—its fortunes.

Originally written in prose and

verse, and partly in Aramaic and partly in Hebrew
2. Greek, Ethiopic, and Latin Versions

3. The Greek Version.

IX=X

.

Editions of this Version

X

.

xix

4. The relations of the Gs and G8 to each other and to E (the Ethiopic
Version)

Xiil-XVi

9, The Latin Version and Quotations

XVI-XVil

6. The Ethiopic Version and MSS.

XVI XX

7. Relations of the Ethiopic MSS,

XXi=XXiV

B. Editions of the Ethiopic Version
9, Original Language of Chapters
XXXVII-CIV — Hebrew

SYMBOLS AND BRACKETS

XXV=XXV
VI-XXXVI
— Aramaic;
R
5
3
ጃ
s

of 1-V,
XVI

USED IN THIS EDITION

XXXiii

THE ETHIOPIC TEXT
THE

GREEK

TEXT

THE

LATIN

FRAGMENT

APPENDIX
GREEK

TXXXLi

1-226
3-75,

.

ON VI, 7

INDEX

ADDENDA ET CORRIGENDA

175-177

219-232

227-228
229-237

238

EE

NEN

VEER

Py

NRL

e

VARY

p

5 oi
የየ

IN IRODUCIION
§ 1.

Tuk BOOK OF ENOCH—ITS FORTUNES. ORIGINALLY WRITTEN
IN PROSE AND VERSE, AND PARTLY IN ARAMAIC AND PARTLY IN
HEBREW.

IT is seldom that authors attain to the immortality which they hope
for, and it is still more seldom that anonymous authors achieve this
distinction. And yet it is just such a distinction that the authors of the
Book of Enoch have achieved. That such should be ultimately his lot
was the deep-rooted conviction of one of this literary circle.
He looked

forward (civ. 11, I2) to the time when his writings would be translated
into Various languages, and become to the righteous ‘a cause of Joy and
uprightness and much wisdom.” This hope was in a large degree realized
in the centuries immediately preceding and following the Christian era,
when the currency of these apocalyptic works was Very widespread on
account of their distinctively religious and predictive contents. But from
the fourth century of our era onward they fell into discredit, and under the
ban of such authorities as Hilary, Jerome, and Augustine they gradually
passed out of circulation and became lost to the knowledge of Western
Christendom till about a century ago.
It was not, however, till recent
years that the Book of Enoch and similar works have beeun to come
into their own, not indeed on the ground of their intrinsic religious worth,
but from their immeasurable value as being practically the only historical
memorials of the religious development of Judaism during the two
centuties which preceded the birth of Christianity, and particularly of
the development of that side of Judaism to which historically Christendom
in large measure owes its existence.
In the course of editing the present work it suddenly dawned upon
the editor that much of the text was originally written in verse. This
discovery has frequently proved helpful in the criticism of difficult passages.
Another conclusion, to the adoption of which a prolonged study of the
text has led the editor, is that the Book of Enoch like the Book ol Daniel
was originally written in two languages—in Hebrew and Aramaic.

b

X

VIE VP OO

AOA

NCI

‘That the Book of Enoch was written in Semitic is now accepted on
all hands, but scholars are divided as to whether the Semitic language in
question was Hebrew or Aramaic.
Only one valuable contribution on this
question has been made, and that by Halcvy in the JZosrsaf Asiafsgte,
Avril-Mai, 1867, pp. 352-395. This scholar is of opinion that the entire
work

was

written

in

Hebrew.

Since

this

publication,

however,

fresh

cvidence beating on the question has been discovered in the Greek
fragment (i-xXxxii) found in Egypt. Since this fragment contains three
Aramaic words transliterated in the Greek, some scholars, and among them

Schiiter, Levi, and N. Schmidt, have concluded that not only are chapters
i-XXXVi, but also the rest of the book, derived from an Aramaic original.
In support of the latter statement no evidence has yet been offered by these
or any other scholars, nor yet has there been any attempt to meet the positive
arguments of FHalevy fot a Hebrew original of XXxvii~civ, whose Hebrew
reconstructions of the text have been and must be adopted in many cases
by every editor and translator of the book. A prolonged study of the text,
which has brought to light a multitude of fresh passages the majority of
which can be explained by retranslation into Hebrew, has convinced the
present editor that, whilst the evidence on the whole is in favour of an
Aramaic original of Vi=XXXVi, it is just as conclusive on behalf of the Hebrew
original of the greater part of the rest of the book. To determine the exact
limits within which each language is used is a task of no little difficulty. This
is due in part to the fact that for four-fifths of the text we have only
a translation of a translation, and in part to the close affinities existing
between Hebrew and Aramaic.
For the resemblances between the two
languages

are so great, that frequently rettanslation

from

the Ethiopic

into either is sufficient to explain corruptions in the former,

Notwith-

standing, there is a clear balance of evidence in favour of a Hebrew
original of XXxXvii-IXxi, Ixxxiii-civ.
“There is much room for further

study of this question, and it is to be hoped
discoveries of M55. evidence bearing upon it.

65.
The

Ethiopic

entire

that there will be fresh

GREEK, ETHIOPIC, AND LATIN VERSIONS.
book

was

translated

into Greek

and

from

Greek

into

about the sixth century of our era, and possibly into Latin.

These are fully dealt with in the following sections.

INTRODUCTION

$3.

THE GREEK VERSION.

XI

EDITIONS OF THIS VERSION.

The Greek Version has only in part been preserved. Chapters iXXX. 6 and XiX. 3-Xxi. 09 in a duplicate form were discovered in 1886-1887
at Akhmim
by the Mission Archcologique Francaise at Cairo, and
published by M. Bouriant in 1892.
These are designated as Gs and
Gs, and Gs። in the case of the duplicate passage. Large fragments have
been

preserved

in Syncellus Vi-X. I4, xv. B-xXvi, 1, and viii. 4-ix. 4 in

a duplicate form.
These
of the duplicate passage.

are designated as G* and G*, G* in the case

The chief literature on these fragments is as follows :—
Bouriant, Fragments #recs du livre Enoch.
JMamorres Bpublids bar les
membres de la JMfissiow arcfiéolorigue frantaiie aw

Caire, tom, iX, pp. 91

136, 1892.
This is praiseworthy as a first edition, but the text is
disfigured by many errors.
LEvangile ei PAbocafpse de Pieyre avec le texte grec du livre

Enoch.
Text Bublig en Fac-simile Bar Viiélioeravure d'aBr8s les piiotoE7apfises du mamuscrit de Giseh. Paris, 1893.
Dillmann, .Ssfssisgsberichte dq. &i. Preuss. Afademie dq. Wissenschaften
sw Berlin, 1892, li-liii, Dp. to39~1o54, 1o79~1o092. “These studies are of
course good, and several of this scholar's suggestions ate excellent, In his
comparison of the Ethiopic and Greek Versions he had the benefit of having
collations of 9 su before him. [hese gave him no inconsiderable advantage
in dealing with the problems before him, though his article takes cognizance of
only a limited number of readings where these M55. furnish a superior text.
décowverts

dq ARmim,

publigs avec les variantes dw texte Euiitopien, radwits ef annuots.

Lods,

Paris, 1893.

Lods

Ze Livre

contribution

d Hgnoch,

Fragments

recs

is learned, scholarly, and judicious, but as he had the

misfortune to base his work on the corrupt text published by Dillmann in
1851, a large portion of his conclusions was vitiated from the outset.
Charles, Tie Book of Foch, pp. 318- 870. Oxford, 1893. In this work
T attempted an exhaustive comparison of the Greek and Ethiopic texts, and

carried the criticism of the materials several stages beyond previous scholars
in this department.
An overestimate, however, of the Ethiopic Version
led me to make some unjustifiable changes in the Greek text. This error
has been set right in the present edition. Notwithstanding, the subsequent
thirteen years of study have confirmed most of the suggestions made in 1893.

Xil

JHE

VBOOKN . OF,

ENOCH

Swete, Tfie O14 Testament im Greek vod. JJ7.

Students are very grateful

to this scholar for the inclusion of the Enoch text in this edition, but the

text as printed leaves much to be desired. It is occasionally unintelligible,
where a comparison of the Ethiopic Version would have suggested the
true text.

Radermacher, Das Buch JHenoch, ferauigegeben .,. von 7. Flemming
nd L£. Fadermacfier, DD. 1860, 113-114.
Leipzig, 19o1. This text, on
the whole, is well edited and forms an advance on preceding editions, But,
unless T am greatly mistaken, Dr. Radermacher is not a Semitic scholar,
This deficiency in his equipment proved a sore handicap in the task he
undertook.
How is a purely classical scholar to edit a Greek text which
is Greelk in vocabulary, but largely Semitic in idiom?

To show that out

text is of this character it will be sufficient to adduce the following
passages: xxii. 9 o} ) mnyY Tog tBaros ¢y atrg (13, ,, AEN)
= “in which
there is the spring of Water. Xvi. 1 6% 9 oi Gvres éxet yiyvovrow (, ee, AEN
Du)
=« where the dwellers become.
Here, it is true, exei could be taken
with oi Gvres., XXXi. 9 ob €o0iovrty €yiov Tog KaproD arog (JS « , v “BND=
‘whose holy fruit they eat.” The editors failure to recognize this idiom in
XVi. 1, has led him to einend the text in such a way as to obliterate wholly
its original form.
Lhe uneimended text runs: dng Tluépas ..,. gavdroy
ap Oy T& Tvetiuara éxropevdueya é€x ris \Wuyiis Tis apkos airéy. 1 This
Semitic construction is supported by E though in a slightly corrupted
form. FHlence it must be preserved, though as 1 pointed out in 1893,
there is according to E the loss of Ty Yiydvrey before ab Sz. This very
phrase, moreover, T6y Ytyéivrey is found in Gs, though this version inserts
after it a gloss (7) containing the names of the three orders of giants as they
ate given in the Targum of Jonathan on Gen. vi, 1-4.

The text and notes ate accurately edited, but there are some errors.

In

v. 6 Radermacher reads oi guiayrot as an emendation of the cortupt reading
which he says is aia | Tot and not auaprnrot, as Bouriant and Lods stated.

Bouriant and L.ods were certainly wrong, and Dillmann’s edition and mine,
which were necessarily based on the work of these scholars, shared in
their error, The autotype reproduction of the text was not published till
after the issue of these editions.
But if Bouriant and Lods deciphered the
M5. wrongly, so also has Radermacher.
It reads akaplrot.
The pis
partially obliterated, but it is unmistakable in the photographic reproduc: T have given the idiom in Hebrew, though the original was in Aramaic,

JINTRODUCIION

X111

tion of the MS.
Hence we should emend akaprot into éuapr(ekyot,
Thus the Christian origin of the words which IL bracketed in 1893
becomes still more manifest: Kai ndyres oi duapr(eA)oi Xapjlrovrat, kat
Ezra arois AMVs éiuaprtSy, and internal evidence confirms the omission of

these clauses in E. Notwithstanding, this forms a serviceable edition of the
Greek.
Another fragment is found in a Vatican Greek MS., No. 1809, written
in tachyeraphic characters. This was published by Mai, Patra Nova
PBibiiotfieca, tom. i, and deciphered

by Gildemeister

in the

ZI

€., 1855,

DD. 621-634, and studied afresh by von Gebhardt in Merx Arete, ii. 243,
1872.

Besides the above, references to or Greek quotations

explicitly or

implicitly from Enoch are found in the £8. oF Barnabas (see iv. 3; Xvi. 4, 6);
Justin Martyr, Ao. ii. 5; Athenagoras in his [Iperigeia, x5 Clement Alex.

Eclaeae propiies, iii. 456 (ed. Dindorf); iii. 474; Strom. ii. 9 ; Origen, Confira
Celsum, V. 535 54;

Ju Joanmem, vi, 25 (Lommatzsch,

i. 241);

Ciemesfime

JHHomsfies, viii, 13. Since these last afford but slight help in correcting the
text, we shall do no more here than refer to Lawlors article on this
subject in the Zotruaf of Pfisloiagy, XXY. 164-2523, 18097.

§S4.

THE

RELATIONS OF THE (G* AND G8 TO EACH OTHER
AND TO E (THE ETHIOPIC VERSION).

(a) @° smhore origiuaf han G.,
These two fragments ate closely
related and yet exhibit marks of independence. They are closely related,
and probably go back to the same Greek translation of the Aramaic
text, since they present in so many passages identically the same text.
On the other hand Gs has in several passages a different and undoubtedly
better order of text, Thus Gs rightly places vii. 3-5 of Gas (or rather its
equivalent of vii. 3-5) after viii. 3 of Gs, Fort manifestly vii. 1, 2, viii. 1-3
precede vii. 3-5. Thus it alone preserves the original order. The angels
went in to the daughters of men, who bare to them three classes of giants.

And the angels taught their women sotrceries and incantations (vii. 1, 2).
Then follows a detailed account of the art, which each of the leading
twenty angels taught mankind.
And after this the giants turned against
men and began to devour their flesh (Gs viii. 1-3; Gs viii. 1-3, vil. 3-5).

It will be observed

that in viii, 3 Gs is very defective

compared with

XIV

THE

BOOK

‘OF . ENO,

Gs in the list of the offices of the various angels.
The additional
elements in Gs here could not have been written by a Greek, for in
every instance the office constitutes when translated into Aramaic
a play on the name of the angel who discharges the office. Similarly
in vi, 7 the order of the names of the angels is different and Gs is here
preferable to Gas E.
Again, viii. 4 of G* has preserved in all probability a more original text
than Gs E. For it is natural that the substance of the prayer of men
as they were slain by the giants should be given when it is first referred
to in viii. 4. Here, indeed, Gs presents a duplicate text, and both texts
give the prayer in duestion. Gs E, on the other hand, do not give the
words of the prayer till ix. 3, when the angels are Dresenting it before
God. Gs in Semitic fashion gives the Drayer 5H exienso here also.1 Again

the additional clauses (ropeyoy Kr.) in Gs Xx. 2, 4 belong most probably to the
original work but have been lost in Gs E, sce D. 24, note 25. The same
is true of the addition in Gs ix. 09 with its peculiar diction, as is cleat
from a comparison of xX. 9, 15.
Finally Gs Dreserves several right readings over against Gs E. Thus
Blroy in x. 11 where Gs E corruptly read Buco, karaxptgn in Xx. I4
where Gs E read karaxavrgy., CD. also Xx. 7.
(9) Felafions oF G° and G° bE.
Even the most superficial study
makes it clear that E and Gs are more closely related than E and Gs
or Gs and Gs. Indeed the evidence makes it clear that FE suas fransiated
from aS. culitchh twas also tie parent or ancestor oF Go. This follows
from the fact that fie sate corruptions appear in Gs E over against
true readings in Gs where this exists.

Thus they both give impossible

readings in x. 7 tendragay (Gs eiroy)i Xx. 11 bliAeroy (Gs Biro) i X. I4
Tkaraxavr0n (Gs Karaxpu0y) i; xiv. 8 tegopyBacoy (a misttanslation of the

Aramaic original), teéeréraray ; xiv. 18 topos (corrupt for goats ?)i Xv. 9
{ayveorépey (Gs vgpéney) ; xviii. 5 tBarrdCovras ¢» vepex] ; XXii. 4 teroinray
for srolgnray i XX. 5 teis Cay; xxviii, 2 tan T6y repudrey.,
In ix. 6

all the authorities are corrupt, but Gs E agree closely.
Furthermore, they add xv. io against G* as well as the sense of the
passage, and omit the same clause in xX. 2, 4 against G*. To the above
facts we should add that E agrees with Gs in transposing vii, 3-5 from
+ Hence 1 withdraw the suggestion that Gs Vii, 2 i5 corrupt.

JNIRODUCIION

XV

its original position after viii, 3 against G°, as we have shown in the
preceding section: also in exhibiting the same defective text of
viii, 4

On the other hand FH preserves certain origina readies fost by Gs
and vice versa. Thus E G* tightly add ayrois after ¢yeyvignray in Vi, 1
and read Bartxeys T6y BartXevdyray in 1X. 4 where Gas reads 3. Ty aievey, and
Tdyrey Tily €£ovriay in iX. 5 where Gs treads aay T. ééovr(ay, and attest ¢y
Tats OnXeiats in ix. 8 and eis aAAIXovs €€ avr6y eis avroys in Xx. 0, which Gs in

both cases omits. Moreover in ix, 11 the corruption in E=ra eis avroys
(for €5s atroys so G°) is easy of correction, whereas Gs offers the hopeless
atas. In the following Dassages G5 ois ciases and Passages Bréiéerved
EDP
Ehus I Oratts’ BN: Hint. Clauses; iB IX: TD,
IOI
RY
XV. 2; Xviii, 3, 5, 11, and without any such intelligible ground ii. 3, all
iii and iv except six words, words and clauses in vi. 1, 5; ix. 85 xX. 10,
RO OUTER
TN RTI XX DD, NXVL
NRT,

On the other hand E oss suordgs and clauses preserved by Gs in i. 1,0
VD

RRND

IU ET XX OS XA

YD

RNETE.

Naturally Gs and E have severally developed corruptions which it is
generally possible to cemend in either case by the help of the other.
Thus E reads in i, 9 ሰዩ for ረስ0:; ii. 1 Mtቁ: for ደቁ; ix. 4 ስመ:
for RY, xii. 1 and 2, xviii. 9 Wt fot At: See also notes on xiv. 2, 21,
BREA XW
OTOH
RA 90 RX
OR
THD,
AMI
DRT
A
RE
RR
ARNT
In the following passages E presupposes Got era for Ouobyrat in ¥. 0;
T6& ker abrd for éTaእAAa in Vii. 15 dydya for Qvayyé in xiii, 45 uvrTniptoy
for vpiay in Xviii, 16; ws eipnyvaiat for eis retpilvas in xix. 2; Ady fot Xd
in XX. 5; KoiXot for Kaxof in xxii, a, 3. Corruptions of Gs will be found
insite fOllOWine: Bassaees: 199; 9805 VIDS
dO
X19
RR
RIN OED
TO RDO
XV I XU IT
XV 4
EH
EN IO RYO
0 RRA
RAV
NR RRR YT
(() From

the above

facts it follows

that GC? and

EB sprig from

a common ancestor which we may designate #%, and that tis % and 0°
Broceed ultimately from thie same original, thie frst Greek translation of
1 Tt is noteworthy that E in xv. 9 gives a conflate text based partly on Gs and partly on (EE
also

that

note 21,

in xiv.

32 Gs and

E do not agree, but rather supplement

each

other.

See p, 40,

XVI

JIE

BOOK,

OR

ENE

thie Book of Enoch
Hence the genealogy
might be represented as follows :—

of the

above

documents

Original Greek Translation from the Semitic
|
|

1

[ey

Fn

1

|

|

Gs

E

§ 5,

THE LATIN VERSION

AND

QUOTATIONS.

The Latin Fragment, which constitutes a very imperfect reproduction
of cvi. 1-18, was discovered in 1593 in the British Museum

by Dr. James,

the present Provost of King's College, Cambridge, and most kindly placed
at my service for publication in my edition of Foc# in 1893. In the
same year he issued it in the Cambridge Texts and Studies 11, No. 3,
ABocryphia Auecdota, Dp. 146130. According to Dr. James this fragment
is found in an eighth century M5. (MS. 5, E xiii in Casley’s Caiajage
oF thie Royal JMIHSS. now in the British Museum).
In this MS. the
Enoch fragment is preceded by a penitential edict of 5. Boniface, and
followed by an anonymous tract ‘De Vindictis Peccatorum. 5
The text has suffered from additions, omissions, and corruptions, and
is very seldom a literal rendering of the original for many words together.
Notwithstanding, it makes some conttibution to the formation of a better
text of cvi.
i
This MS. further may point to a Latin translation, or at least to
a partially completed Latin translation of Enoch i for (1) occurring in the
midst of original Latin treatises it appears to have been found in Latin
by the collector or scribe of these treatises. (2) It has suffered much
1 This conclusion hardly seems adequate to explain all the phenomena mentioned on pp. xii xi.
These postulate not only the occurrence of duplicate renderings in the Greek translation, but
most probably also the occurrence of variants in the Hebrew original. Cf. Y. 9; Xx. 7 (note 0) ix. 4
(note 20) 5 xiv. § (see D. xxix) i Xvi. Fr (note 14: see also DD. xxix=xxx) 5 x1vi. 42 6 (note 35); 1ii. 9
(see p. XXxi) 5 Xxcix. © (see D. Xxxiii),
=
3 In my edition of 1893 the description of the position of this fragment was both wrong and
inconsistent. “These errors were due not to Dr. Tames —the source of my information—but to

inconceivable carelessness on my own part. When Dr. James rightly disclaimed responsibility in
a review of my book, 1 wrongly maintained, in a rejoinder, his responsibility for the errors in question,
T must either have replied without consulting the passage referred tos or else 1 consulted it but failed
to observe its utter absurdity. 1 did not recognize it till much later.

INTRODUCTION

XVil

in the course of tradition, and may, therefore, go back to a date, when
the Book of Enoch was not reprobated generally, and when a Latin
translation would have been acceptable. (3) It does not show signs of
being an excerpt from a collection of excerpts, such as we find in the
Greek

fragment

of Enoch,

lxxxix.

42-49;

but

standing

as

it does

without any introductory note or explanation, it looks as if it had been
drawn directly from at least a larger Latin fragment of Enoch.
It is possible that the absurd statement with which the fragment
opens— [Cum esset Lamech annorum tricentorum quinduaginta] natus
est ei filius —originally referred to Methuselah, who was 355 years old
when Noah was born according to the LXX Chronology.
E speaks
here of Methuselah taking a wife for his son Lamech and of a son being
born to him.
Latin Quotations. These have been collected most fully by Dr. Lawlor
in his article in the Zoursaf of Ciassscai Pfisloleey, XXV. 164-233. They
will be dealt with at some length in my new edition of the Book of
Fock.

§ 6.

Tur ETHIOPIC VERSION

AND M55.

The Ethiopic Version has been preserved in twenty-nine M55. of
which fifteen ate to be found in Ensland, eight in France, four in
Germany,

one in Italy, and one

in America.

Of

these

M55.

there ate

only three of which my knowledge is indirect and slight, but not yet too
slight to enable me to estimate their value and their affinities with the

other MSS. These MSS. are p and 2, #. Of these # indeed was most
kindly lent to the Bodleian Library for my use, but unhappily 1 was
absent part of the time of its sojourn there, and whilst 1 was Dresent
the officials of the Bodleian did not notify me of its arrival. s is ol no
account as it is merely an exact transcript of b. Next as regards p,
this MS. formerly belonged to Lord Crawford and was lent by him to
the editor of the German edition of the Ethiopic text of Enoch which
appeared in 19gox, but since that date this MS. has passed into the hands
of a lady, who refuses to lend it or any other MS. in her possession to
the Bodleian Library for the use of English editors. Of the remaining
MSS. I have directly examined twenty-two, i.e. £,F gf, apያfhskino,
and Suvivuya,b. Of these I photographed thirtecn, ie. £9,
J#sRpino.

Five others, i.e. aby,a,p,

Cc

1 had

no

need

to photograph,

as

xviii

THE

BOOK

OF ENOCH

the owners of ap most kindly Dut these MSS. at my service for the
space of two years, while aby were always at hand for consultation in

the Bodleian, to which y had been lent for that purpose by the Munich
Library. Of the Abbadian MSS. rs vzu 1 made collations on a number
of test passages, while at Abbadia. These readings are appended in
foot-notes on these M55. in the following list, and are sufficient to show
the affinities of these M55. amongst MSS. of the second class, Finally,
as regards cde# 1 have used Dillmanns collation of cde and a photoeraph of # which I procured from the Vatican. Thus for the construction
of the present text 1 have had at my service photographs of fourteen
M55. Zim, the constant use of the five MSS. ayby,a,p, Dillmann’s
collations of cde, Flemming s collation of # (which I have used sparingly)
—

in all twenty-three M55. Four other MSS. rsyvw I have collated
sufficiently to determine their character, Of the remaining MS. s (for
# may be ignored as a transcript of b) it is enough that we have
Flemming s assurance that it is closely related to abcde.
The division of Enoch into chapters was made apparently in the
sixteenth century. The division into io chapters was made by Dillmann
without M55. authority, but as it has been followed by all subsequent
scholars it is here adopted for the sake of convenience. The above
division is indeed

found

in one MS5., i.e. #, but this MS.

was

unknown

to Dillmann when he made his text. Moreover, the chapters in # vary
frequently in length from those in Dillimanns text.
The

full list of the MSS.

a. Bodley, No. 4. Large quarto.
18th cent. Enoch only
6. Bodley, No. 5. Large quarto.
chapters), Job, Isaiah,
Canticles, Daniel.

12

is as follows i—

4o fol.

3 cols.

41

3 cols.

Minor

fol.

Prophets,

og chapters,

Latter half of

8th cent. (?).

Proverbs,

Wisdom,

Ep rankfort MS. Rupp: IE RE SY
gO NEme IEBZD A cOlS
Several hands. Enoch (98 chapters), Job, Octateuch.

Enoch (98
Ecclesiastes,

TSE

ee nr

In

1 Laurence issued a transcript of this MS. in 1838. The transcription is somewhat faulty in
the earlier chapters.
The errors are, as a rule, easy to correct, but, even after the rejection
of the obvious errors of the press, a considerable number remains, and the most of these have
been reproduced in Dillmann’s ABfaratfws Crsfscws, and from Dillmann's have passed over into
Flemming’s text of igo. In chapters V~x these errors are distributed as follows; one in ¥. 35
iil, 35 X. 1: three in vii, 1, 3, 5: four in vi, 15 4, 7 (9ss),

JNIJRODUCITION
4. Curzon

MS,

Quarto.

or fol.

2 cols.

Enoch

XIX
(oz chapters), Job, Daniel,

4 Ezra, Sirach.

¢. Curzon M5. Small quarto. ror fol. 2 cols.
Marginal notes from another
hand. Enoch (98 chapters ?), Samuel, Kings, and Apocryphal book.
#f British Museum. Add. 24185 (Wright's Catalogue, 1877, No. 8). 2 cols. of 23
lines. roth cent. Enoch only. io6 chapters.
Z. Brit. Mus. Orient. 485 (Wright, No. 6). 9o fol. 23 x 19 cm.
2 cols. of 23
or 24 lines. First half of 6th cent. Enoch (without division into chapters),
Book of Jubilees. On fol, 168a=177s a duplicate of chapters xcvii. 6bv~cviii. io
is inserted from another MS. akin to #. See next MS.
#. This MS. consists only of xcvii. eb=cviii,. 10, and is found in foll. 1682-177 of £.
Tt is inserted between the last word and the last but one of xci. 6. It is written
by the same scribe, but the text thoueh belonging to the best type differs
from 2.

#. Brit. Mus. Orient. 484 (Wright, No. 7).

3 cols. of go or 5x lines.

Enoch (ro8 chapters), Octateuch, Jeremiah, Daniel, Ezekiel,

8th cent.

24 Esra, Tobit

Judith, Esther, Sirach.
2. Brit. Mus. Orient. 486 (Wright, No. 8).
3 cols. of 29 lines.
8th cent.
Chapters 11x. 13 missing. Nos. of remaining chapters erased. Enoch, Samuel,
Kings, Jeremiah, Sirach.
&. Brit. Mus. Orient. 49o (Wright, No. 2),
3 cols. of 3o lines. 8th cent,
Enoch (io? chapters), Job, Daniel, 1 Ezra, Isaiah, 12 Minor Prophets.
jf. Brit. NLus, 24990 (Wright, No: x3). 3 cols. of 3x lines. rath cent. Enoch
(divided into chapters, but no numbers suppliedy, Job, Books ascribed to
Solomon, Isaiah, 2 Minor Prophets, Daniel.
m. Brit. Mus. Orient. 491 (Wright, No. 15). 219 fol. 4o x 32 cm. 3 cols. of
27 lines. 8th cent. Enoch (without division into chapters), Job, iz Minor
Prophets, Tobit, Judith, Esther, Maccabees.

wn. Brit. Mus. Orient.

492 (Wright,

No.

16),

3 cols. of go lines.

Enoch (87 chapters), Books ascribed to Solomon, Jeremiah,
Sirach, Judith, Esther, Tobit.

sth cent.

1 Ezra, Canticles,

o. Brit. Mus. Orient. 499 (Wright, No. 23). 3 cols. of 31 lines.
Sirach, Daniel, Enoch (io6 chapters), Isaiah, 12 Minor Prophets.

8th cent.

P. Formerly in the possession of Lord Crawford—now in that of Mrs. Rylands.
67 fol. 39 x 33cm.
3 cols. 7th cent. Enoch and other books.
1 T here accept Flemming’s correction (Das Buch #/essoch, D. 8, note) of my description (Boog
of Enoch, p. 200) of the extent and character of this MS.

AR

JIE

BOON

OF

ENOCH

g. Berlin MS. Peterm. 11. Nachtr. No. 29 (Dillmanns Cat. 1). 6? fol, nx
I4 cm.
2 cols, of 13 to 14 lines. 6th cent. Without division into chapters.
Enoch only.
r. Abbadianus 16 (vid. Caf. rasson. de mis. éifiiop. apparienanf 4 A. g AbJadie,
Paris, 1859). 9th cent, Enoch (77 chapters) and other works
£. Abbadianus 30.

8th cent.

£ Abbadianus

4o x 35 cm.

35.

Enoch and other works.”
3 cols. of 38 to 39 lines.

are many erasures and corrections and marginal notes.
to the later type of text, and are designated as 2.

7th cent.

There

The latter belong
The division into

chapters is marked in the margin on the first few folios.
Enoch, Job,
Samuel I and 11, Kings, Chronicles, Books ascribed to Solomon, Prophets,
Sirach, i=v Ezra, T obit, Judith, Esther.
a. Abbadianus 58.

191 foll,

Si x39 cm.

3 cols. of 48 to go lines.

Possibly as

early as the 5th cent. Enoch (without division into chapters) and other works.
Text of Enoch much abbreviated after chapter IXxxiii.
2. Abbadianus 99. Ho fol. 23 % 11 cm.
2 cols. ath cent. Copy made for
M. dqAbbadie from a MS. in high estimation among the native scholars. This
MS. has all the bad characteristics of the later type of text. Enoch onlyss
1 This is a Door MS., but it exhibits a few good readings. Thus it agrees with a, ad in vi, 549
(i.e. note 0): originally it supported £Z in right reading against all other MSS. on xvii, 2: it
agrees with 9, B-abdx on xxxix. 101, with a-yt, deéinwuia onxlvy. 37, with ag, d6f/88/y,a
on XxlVi, 77, With ae és on xiii, 150, with af, aeF8 Hu on lxix,. 41°, With a, aef#it%/u,a on
Lxxi. 115, With as /5/0y,a 0 on lxxxi. 37s, with aye, ecéfis%n on Ixxxix. 42°, with a=, acfBsSn
on Xciii. Ios, with a=, @acdsi&i9,asy on xc. 3297, With 7, cFB5SInx,a on cil. 4. From the
above it is clear that this MS. though it does not follow closely any of the special groups of B, yet
it shows some affinity for e and its congeners.
2 This is a poor MS., but has some notably good readings. Agrees with ##, ey x on ix. 8, agrees
with a, fe Fh &Iny,a on Xxiv. 210, With ##, deFé/#y,a on XxiX. 2%, With £m
on Xxxix. Ior, with
#9, ed/o0yB on xl. 1, with a-ym, desI#wya on x1Y. 37, with a-g, def #éiy,a on xlvi,y?,
with a-97, def 880, on xlviii. 63, with a, B-Bcx on lili. 717, with a-e, &# on lxii. 91°, with ay Zs
on 1xii. 155, with ae #8 én ysy on 1xiii. 15, With e#% on xvii. 87, with a-f, ef 8% on 1xix. 45, with
a, @éEF BIR on XX. 115, agrees with # on Lxxxiii. 85, with a=a¢, cdf si/oy,asb on lxxxiii. 110, with
Zt
apc FhsSux on IXXXiV. 1, With arf, @e/oxy,9 on LXXxvi. 217, with a-i, acfhsitnw on
xciii. Io's, with Zit, Bs5/0BXy,aB onc. 131) With ye, CFséiux,a on cil, 4. This MS. so far
as it agrees with any special group within 8 does so with e&.
5 This MS. which embodies the text approved by the Mamheran or native scholars exhibits most
of the Vices of the second class of MSS., but some excellent readings. See on LXxxix. 150, €. 47 below.
Tt agrees with box,9 on ix. 10, with ia on xvii. 31, with a, B-ag0dwx,a on Xxxix. 7%, with gf,
CEB RINnOV,aB on xxxix. 1ot, With Fm, adfoyb on x1. 1, with cf on xl. 2s, with ag,
def8 8S nop on Xlviii. 63, with a, B-Bcx on liii. 719, With e# on lxii. 97, with 9, 8 on 1xii. 122, with

@e RE

on xiii, 150 with £9, ef originally (7), but with # ##, B~efF over erasure on Lxiii, 7s, with ek

INIT KRODUCIION

XX

20. Abbadianus i197. 157 foll. 26 x23 cm. 3 cols. of 29 lines.
cent. Enoch (98 chapters) and other works

rth or 18th

x. Vatican MS. 7x (cf. Mai Script. yeyerum nova collects, Romae, 1831, T.Y. 2, Dp. too).
27 foll, 3 cols. of 32 lines. 7th cent. Enoch only. 98 chapters.
y. Munich MS. 30. 6 fol, 239 x 15 cm. a cols. of zo to 28 lines. th cent.
Division into chapters only at the beginning. Enoch only.

2. Paris MS. So (see Zotenberg s Cat.).,

7th cent.

Enoch (division into chapters

only at the beginning) and other works.

sn. Paris MS. 49.

sth cent.

iw. Garrett MS,
Enoch only.

17x

Is cm.

Copy of 9.
2s cols.

of 55

lines,

9th or end of rgth cent.

9. Westenholz MS.
yr foll. of which first and last two are empty.
lines. sth cent. roe chapters. Enoch only.

$7,

RELATIONS

2 cols, of 24

OF THE ETHIOPIC MSS.

(a) Two Forms oF text, a, B, of swftsct B 25 fate and secondary.

There

are two forms of the Ethiopic text. The first is represented by Zig mgfs
(and in some degree by 72), which we shall henceforth designate by a, and
the second, which owes its origin to the labours of native scholars of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, by all the remaining M55, ie. 8.
The result of these labours has been on the whole disastrous; for these

scholars had neither the knowledge of the subject-matter nor yet critical

materials to guide them as to the form of the text.

Hence in nearly every

instance where they have departed from the original untevised text they
have done so to the detriment of the book. But it is not to be inferred
from the above that a always represents one type of text and B another
on Lxvii. 379) with a-f, aéF8 én on lxix. 475, with ne, B51 on xx. 3°, with a, aef8s&s on 1xxi, 115,
With f, d 85% on lxxxiii. 850, with abe8 én x on IXxxiii. 110, with Ff, abcFhs8nx on lxxxiy. 1,
with me on Ixxxix, 15 (here undoubtedly right), with a, acefFistn on Ixxxix, 4329, with 7s,
BeF BBBX on xc, 29*t, with a-me, acfh SS on xciil,. Ios, With fg onc. 47, with ss, CFi8/nx,e
on cii. 4”.
1 Agrces with a, adr in Vi, 50, with a-#, # on ix. 65, with aéef/h1$ /Brsiy,ab on x. 111t, with
He tu though originally With £9, #8 on XY. 125, in margin with f on XxiV. 2%, with a, fሪF 88,
on XXiY, 29) With fedefé/ny,a on xxix. 21, with gf, ceFa%inuoy,asb on Xxxix. 10, With a-i,
desinya on xly. 35, with a-g, déf8481y,a on xlvi. 77, with aehtny on lxiii, 1, with
a, B-Bcdn oy on xxi. 115, with a, Fi/0y,a0 on lxxxi, 3's, with a-f, aé/oxyy on Ixxxyi. 20, with
a-, @cefhisn on lxxxix. 435, With am, acdsi&/o,a,b on Xx. 209°, with a-ym, acyaisn on
xciii, oss with it, cFiI8 JX oncii, 45, with fim, B-< on ciii,. 71, with agce% on civ. 9,

XXL

VIII

OE SE NOCH

type opposed to the former; for the attestation of neither group is wholly
uniform, as each group is divided within itself. This statement holds true
in a much greater degree of a. Indeed, the cases are comparatively few
where a differs as a whole irom B. Fifty readings out of fifty-one which
any editor must adopt will have the support of one MS. singly as #, 2, 9,
b u, or of groups

such as ZIM,

gum,

mu,

&c., and

the fifty-first time of the undivided a. For instances of the latter see
i. 9 (note 23), viii. 1 (note 34), x. 3 (note 38), 13 (note 28), 17 (note 7),
a2 (note 48), Xv. 5 (note 24). Moreover, when the attestation of a is
divided, the individual or group of a attesting the right reading will often
have the support of B or of groups within H. The above facts serve to
prove that fie récension tUas of #fie work of @& Fey ears, Buf suas rather

a process wfiich culminated $n Such a text as tue find 5 |B, but particularly
i thie MS. %.
(9) 3B or romps 5H 3 sometimes Breserve ffte original texts. Again it
is noteworthy that in a limited number of cases B preserves the original
text where a is secondary. Some of these are no doubt accidental, but
seventeen i such readings in thirty-two chapters are hard to account for
in this fashion.
These instances are found in the following passages.
Thus B is right over against a in vi, 6 (note 43), viii. 3 (note 15), ix. 1

(note 6), 3 (note 18), B-/ in ix. 1 (note 7), Xx. 1 (note 24), peeFifen0
against a and rest of 8 in vi. 6 (note 4), a0#%in ix. 4 (note 24), bco#,a,p in
Xviii. 4 (note 132), dy in xxii. 13 (note 53), #0 in xxiv. 3 (note 47), #a in
IX. 6 (note 10), 0%, in xviii. 15 (note 32), # single-handed in iX. 11 (note 15),
xX. 3 (note 37), 7 (note 21), Xxii. 9 (note 29). Hence in some cases there is
in B most probably a survival of the original text where it has been lost in
the present representatives of a.
(<) J78e character and affiuaties of tlie chief MISS. £. Of the MSS.
of a, £ is decidedly the best all-round M5.
This does not mean that

it has more unique and right readings than any other MS. of the older
type of text, but that when all the good points of the various MSS. are

summed up, # comes out an easy first. In the first thirty-two chapters
#Z alone attests the right reading in vi. 5 (note 37), xvii. 3 (note 27), xviii. 7
(note 33), xxi. 5 (note 8), xxviii. 3 (note 11). In IXXxix. 45 (note 4) it has
only the support of 7, the best of the second class MSS.
This MS.
i Flemming enumerates only six, and three of these are wrong i for # in these three cases agrees
with B: in ii, 1 £i5 wrongly represented as agreeing with a.

INITRODUCIHION

XX

has been made the basis so far as any single MS. can of my text. Tt
exhibits much strange orthography and bad grammar, and many corruptions. Notwithstanding it is by far the best representative we have
of the ancient text. It was this MS. together with m that 1 used when
emending Dillmann's text for my translation and commentary which
appeared in 1893.
#.
This M5., which has already been described, shows certain
idiosyncrasies in ciii., 0-15, Where it uses the first person over against
the third in the other MSS.
Outside this chapter it agrees in turn
with £, 7m, 9, ¢ wu or with combinations of these or with one or more of
these combined with B, but it is most nearly related tog.
ma. This M5. is in some respects the weakest of the older group.
Tt attaches itself so closely to £ that we must assume its having come
under its influence.
This fact becomes of importance when we come to

chapters xcvii, 6°=cviii. 10, where we have both

and ,£.

Moreover, the evidence is not as decisive as we could wish; for though alone
or together with B it agrees in many passages with & (see xcvii. 6 (note 28);
xcviii. 2 (note 19) (along with 8), 3 (note 29); cii. 1 (note 1), 6 (note a);
ciii. 2 (note 2), 13 (note 15); cvi. Io (note 6)), yet we find it displaying
similar affinities with i# (see xcviil, 6 (notes 13, 15); xcix. 2 (note 2)
cil. 2 (note 51), 6 (note 34), 7 (note 41); civ. 1 (note 5); cv. 2 (note 33)
Cvi. 7 (note 24), Io (note 1), 19 (note 34)), On the other hand in the vast
majority of its unique readings Z is unaccompanied by im.
Hence
somehow
has been influenced by the readings both off and fF. In x. 2
(note 33) and xvii. 4 (note 36) it alone attests the primitive text, in vii, 3
(note 9) alone with Ff, and in XY. 11 (note 21) with boxy.
2. Though teeming with every form of error incident to the transmission
of a text in the way of additions, corruptions, and omissions, this MS.
contains a larger number of unique original readings than any other used
in our text. Thus it alone preserves the original text in ix. 8 (note 21),
Xi ET iiote' 16), iv: 1 (note 39)5 Xa. 5 (note 24); xxi
(note 25), XY. 2

(ore

RRS

(note 33), Xx

4 (note 47); RHE

(note 31),

1t

approximates more closely toZ,g 7 than to Zs.
£. This is a most interesting M5.,r as it gives the older type of reading
1 This MS. is notable also from the fact that for the Books of Samuel and Kings it alone
exhibits a third type of text diverging from the two types of text in circulation in Abyssinia.
These were the first and primitive type of text and the later or Vulgate, Where this MS. diverges

XXIV

ITE RPO OE

OR RP NOY

in the text and the later either over erasures or above the line or in the
marein, with the rejected words in the text bracketed. The corrector has
not done his work thoroughly. Accordingly many of the older readings
remain untouched.
The work of erasing has been so frequently perfunctory
that it is generally possible to decipher the original text.
Moreover,
in some cases the correction represents a return to the older text. Ci.i,6
(note 5). As FZ
are closely connected, so are f and au. # is the least
original of the M55. of the first class. Thus it is hardly ever right alone,
For one instance in the first thirty-two chapters see x. 1o (note 3).

a. This MS. would form a good third to 2 and 9 but that it is so
imperfect after chapter IXXxiii, for nearly one-seventh of the entire book is
omitted in the course of IXXxiii-cviii.
[hese omissions are made in the
most capricious way.
Sometimes words, sometimes phrases, sometimes
whole sentences and paragraphs are excised to the entire destruction of the

sense. Notwithstanding as # is a valuable M5. I have most faithfully
recorded all its omissions and changes.
In chapters iI-xxxii it alone
preserves the true text in iii (note 23), iv (note 33), Xxi. 7 (note 40)
Bn. Of MSS. of the second class # is by far the best. Indeed, though in
the main embodying the second type of text it attests more unique and
original readings in chapters i-XxXxii than me or f or #. Thus it stands alone
in giving the original text in ix. 11 (note 15), x. 3 (note 37), 7 (note 21),
XXii. 0 (note 29) (7). Alone of M55. of the second class it gives along with
various M55. of the first class the true text as in i. 3 (note 18), xiv, 21
(note Io), XXY. 7 (note 19), IXXXiX. 42 (note 4), &c. Thus # exhibits the
characteristics of both types of text.
Remain MSS. oF B. Several of these MSS. go in pairs. Thus ax,
dy ef, op must go back respectively to four common sources, as they
respectively attest a vast number of unique readings.

degree &£ is connected.

With

a in a less

efi and op, moreover, have also a considerable

number of readings in common, and likewise d/o.
A study of the notes will show the reader that it is possible to establish
partial conncxions between other groups of M55. than those already
mentioned, but the further prosecution of this subject does not lead to any
valuable results.
from these two classes of text it repeatedly agrees with the Hebrew (Massoretic) text.
Subse.
quently a corrector worked over this MS. and erased readings belonging to the first class, as well
as those peculiar to this MS. which were derived from the Hebrew, and substituted readings of the
second or Vulgate type, See Dillmann, Bs. Aes, T. 11. 15 Appar, Cri. D. 5.

INTRODUCTION
§ 8.

EDITIONS

OF THE

XXV

ETHIOPIC

VERSION,

Laurence, /Z.56r5 Fnoc# Versio Aeifisopica. Oxoniae, 1838. This text
was issued simply as a transcript of a, one of the MSS. brought to Europe
by Bruce, the great Abyssinian traveller, in 1773. The transcription is
not Very accurate in the early chapters, though the errors are as a rule
easy to correct. In chapters vx there are ten; most of these have
passed over into Dillmann's Apparatus Crificus, and from Dillmann’s to
Flemming's. As the text advances it becomes more accurate, so that
1 found its citation by Dillmann to be sufficiently trustworthy for use in
the present edition.

Dillmann, /.5ger Jfewocd, Aeifhsopice, ad gwsngue codicum fae
Cm

Variis

decfiomious.

Lipsiae,

1851.

This

edition

was

based

edsfus,
on

five

M55. abcde, of which ay are in the Bodleian, c in the Frankfort Library,
and dé were the property of the well-known traveller, Robert Curzon.
Of Dillmanns collations of cde 1 have tested only that of 9 in the
opening chapters, and found only one bad error, in chapter vii, These
five MSS. are all of secondary value.
The best of them is a. No
further work on the Ethiopic text appeared till 1892, when Dillimann
(SZfznugsberichte a. £21. Preuss. Aad. dg. Wiss. su Berlin, 18952, li-liii,
pp. 10391054, 1079-1092) published some variants from three M55. on
the first thirty-two chapters of Enoch in connexion with his edition of the
fragmentary Greek Version.

Charles,

Ife

Boog of Enoch

translated from Professor Dallmann $

ERiopic
Jext emended
and revised
ncollated MSS,
and sith thie Gish

Fragments.

Oxford,

1893.

This

tu accordance swith itfierio
and offier Greeg and Latin

translation

was

based

on a drastic

revision of Dillmanns text.
Ten new MS5., which belong to the
British Museum, were used, three of them, F,# 7m, being of primary imDportance, and seven, F#Ai#In0, being of only secondary.
Of these MSS.
1 collated 2s, F#5& /nu0 on about three hundred passages; but ZF, 1 collated
throughout, on the whole accurately, but defectively, as TI now find, in
a relatively small number of passages.
Flemming, Das
Buch Hench:
Aetfiiopiscfier Tex fierawigcgeben
vow Zo. Flemming (= Texte und Uniersuchiunren, Neue Folge, NII. i).

Leipzig, 1902.
EMPOIRVUUY.

Dr. Flemming’s text is based on fifteen M55. agcdes
Of these six belong to the first classé,
d

mtu

and the

XXVI

JIE

POON

OT

ENOCH

rest to the second class. This editor has been at no little pains in the
preparation of his text. Thus he has himself collated gFimp9y.
His
knowledge of fu he owes to photographs taken by Professor Meyer in
France, and of yeu to collations of the same scholar. It was a fatal
error on Dr. Flemmings part that he did not photograph #9, or, at
all events, revise his collations of them.

Flemming s text

naturally constitutes an

immeasurable

advance

on

that of Dillmann, and a considerable advance on Dillimann's text as emended

in my commentary in 1893. With the help of the three new first-class
M55. 9 fw, this editor was able to point out a few passages where 1 followed
mere idiosyncrasies of #, and also some

others where I preferred the less

trustworthy of the two texts £F,f in chapters xcvii. 6=cviii, 10.
On the whole, Flemming’s text is good, as might be expected from
so excellent an Ethiopic scholar, and several of his sugeestions have
been

accepted

in the

Dresent

edition.

On

close

examination,

however,

Flemmings edition proves unsatisfactory ftom its frequent inaccuracy in
the collation of the MSS. generally, and its inadequate collation of the
first-class MSS.

In my

review

of this edition in the Aiericas

Zournaf

of 4teoleey, pp. 689-703, 1903, 1 have summed up its serious shortcomings
under the following heads: (i) Jeacctrate and defective collation of hie
MSS.
(ii) Je aqopfionm oF Snferior readings into the text twllere thie MSS.
evidence For fie trite text 15 Snconfrovertipte.
Flemming’s treatment of the
great Berlin M5. 9 on chapters X-XXxii will exemplify his method in
dealing with the other MSS.
In six passages in these chapters 9 aioe
amongst the Ethiopic MSS. preserves the true text of E, as is proved
by G. Vet in two of them, xxi, a (note 24), xxiv. 2 (note 41), 9 is not
collated at all, and in the remaining four, xX. 11 (note 16), xiv. 1 (note 39),
XXii, 9 (note 25), XXxii. 4 (note 31), the reading of 9 is relegated to the
notes, and the wrong reading adopted.
In x.7 (note 21) 9 practically
gives the original text (which is preserved by # alone), but the corrupt
text is adopted by this editor. (iii) Corrupt assages are left iw thie text
tUi(fRout ay attempt 0 emend tiem or even to call attention fo thieir
Viciomsuess. (iv) JDivergecies between G and E are left unexplained. (NV)
Practically

wo

mie

#5 made

of thie Semitic

background for purposes

of

emengation. Notwithstanding the above shortcomings, Dr. Flemming s
edition is deserving of the gratitude of Orientalists, as it constitutes a Vast
advance on that of Dillmann, and forms on the whole a serviceable work
for students generally.

INTRODUCTION

§ 9.

ORIGINAL LANGUAGE
OF

I-V,

OF CHAPTERS

XXXVII-CIV

XXVIL

VI-XXXVI

ARAMAIC,

HEBREW.

That the Book of Enoch was originally written in a Semitic language
is now universally admitted.
But what that language is is still a question
of dispute.
In the past Hoffmann, Jellinek, Dillmann (?) assumed a
Hebrew original, and Halévy (Zour. Asiafigwe, 1867, Dp. 352-395) furnished
excellent grounds for such a belief, but of late years, since the discovery
of the Gizeh Greek fragment, there has been a tendency to assume that
the original was written in Aramaic.
Neither view can T believe be
established, but each appears to be true in Dart, as 1 hope now to Drove.
The proof in certain sections amounts almost to demonstration: in the
case of others only a probability can be indicated.
The results of
present study of this problem tend to show that chapters Vi-XXXVi were
originally written in Aramaic,

and XXxVii-IXXi,

IXXxiii-civ, and

probably

i—v in Hebrew.
The original language of IXxXii-IXxxii is still indeterminable, but the probability of an Aramaic original seems to be greater than
that of a Hebrew.
Chapters $0. Probably from a Hebrew original. These chapters do
not come from the same author or period as Vi-XXXVi.
v. 9 (Gs) « They shall not be punished (TWiki = koxargiirovraty all
the das of, their .life:,, Since’, has’ ekdoreoin here, if the text IN
both cases is rightly transmitted, it is probable that YSN, stood in the
original, and that it was rendered by dudiprerey in the text of the Greek
translation

and

by Koargroyrat

in the margin, or Vice versa.

In the

Jest. Aster, Vi. 1, the converse appears to have happened and the translator
to have rendered this Hebrew verb by koxdcovrat instead of by uaprdvovrt.
Again in i, 09 ‘He cometh with myriads of holy ones the text
reproduces the Massoretic of Deut. xxxiii. 2 (see note on i. 9) in reading
RDN = épxerat, whereas the three Targums, the Syriac, and Vulgate read

RR
= eT’ arog.

Here the LXX

diverges wholly.

The

reading

SNnN

is recognized as original.

The writer of this section of Enoch used the

Hebrew text, and followed

neither Version

nor Targum

in reproducing it.

Presumably he wrote in Hebrew also. See also notes 1. 9 on Dp. 10.
Chapters Ui-XXwi.
lt will be observed in the notes on these chapters
that sometimes the Greek is retranslated into Hebrew and sometimes into
Aramaic.

The treason is that when they were written (in 19011905) 1 was still

XXVILL

JHE

BOOK

OR

ENOCH

undecided as to which language was the original. The balance of evidence
now appears to me to be in favour of the latter, and this is as follows :—
(a) Aramaic suordqs wrausfiterated im thie Gree.
In xviii. 8 @ovka =
Nጋ\5, in XXviii. 1 and XXiIX. 1 kaygogapd and BaBgnpé = NT»

(5) Aramaic constructions.
In XixX. 2 we have the peculiar Greek ai
yYuyaikés vray T6y TapaBdyrey &yyéexey. This is a literal reproduction of
the Aramaic idiom Yn I NSN2i5 ግ Ni.
The same construction recurs
in E in ix. 8 which = vvekovugnray er avray era T&y gnAev@y = 3\ጋy
Ny) Ey Hoy.
Here Gs, it is true, has omitted era r6y gnaevay., Lhis

omission may be due to the unintellieibility of the construction to a pure
Greek scribe. It is possible, however, that Gs is right, which connects
€y Tats

Tats

gnXeiats

OMXeiaus

with

the

eutdygnrar.

next

Verb —vyéxotulgnray

But

this

is very

construction would be vrekoiuignray er

Ona.

We

have

er

unlikely;

abr@y

Kai éy

for the

natural

Ty ONXeLSy Kai ¢v avrais éhtdy-

probably a third instance of this idiom in vi. 8 obrot

eiziy Gpxai pry

oi Béxa where oi Beka should be emended into Sy Bekdgoy

with FE.

dpxai apry

Then

ry» BexdBay = Nn

nN.

This Aramaic

idiom has made its way into the 0. T. as in Canticles iii. 7.
(<) Some OF fie proper names swith cuhich Baromomasias are comnected
postulate aw Aramaic oriinat.
Thus in G* viii. 3 we have 9 B¢ rpiros
€B(Bage Ta anueia Tis ys. Now 6 Tiros in Vi. 7 is Apakul = DNDN, where
pግN

is Aramaic

cBigace

Ta oueia

for «earth.

Again

in Gs viii. 3 we

Tils eilvns (Gs SepX

according to G* vi. 7 is ZapuiX= PN'ግnb.,

have

0 B¢ eikogrs

eAyvaywy(as), where

6 eikorrds

Here no is Aramaic for « moon

Again in viii. 3 the § 6yBgoos in 6 B¢ 6yB8oos eB(gagey Qeporkoniay 15 G# EcexulA
(G* Zaki) = SKspry,.

py (= &]p), it 15 true, is Hebrew as well as Aramaic.

(7) Occasiomalty fie sowrce OF corruptions 3% thie Greek can be detected by
Fetranifafion smuto Aramaic.

1 can offer but a few instances of this nature;

for though there are many passages which can be restored by retranslation
into the original, the restoration can be made equally well in most Dassages

by retranslation into either Hebrew or Aramaic. Ihe evidence, therefore, in
this section is not conclusive.
It serves to Drove, however, the thoroughly
Semitic basis of our author,
xX. 17 T6 rdBlf3ara atr@y.

Here we should have 79 yiipas avr.

Here, as

note in loc, shows, the soutce of the corruption is explicable both in Hebrew
and Aramaic.
1 On the other hand in xxvii, 2 JY is a transliteration of N'3 (= « valley) which is a pure Hebrew
words the Aramaic being Ronn.

Since KN», however, is here used as a proper name, as denoting the

“ Valley of Hinnom,’ its use may be justifiable in an Aramaic document.

JINITRODUCIION

RIE

xii. 6 ovxT €orat avroisT eis €Xeoy. See note on this Dassage on D, 238.
xiii. 2 vox] Kai €pdrneis cot obk frat epi @y €Beégas dQBuxudray, «no
forbearance nor trequest shall be to thee in regard to &c.’ Here Noiy

(= Endres) was corrupt for Nr'2%
1= pers, «forgiveness

CL xii. 5 kai ok

frrat . . eipnlun otire pers.
Here the Hebrew can also account for the
corruption.
xiii. 9 Tevgovres éy "ABeArax (so E), i.e. ABetxivn
= haN3 MON—
a paronomasia.
XiV. 6 ok ¢oTat Jui T6vmots avr6y GANG erogvrat . . . €y uaxaipg.
Here Gvnoes= iS, which should here have been rendered karéxetuua, In
Hebrew ግn' also admits of both senses.
XiV. 8 KarérrovBatov
impossible, and we have

Kai + ¢gopyf3acoy.
Here the second verb is
probably two renderings of one and the same

Hebrew word \on3, accordingly as it is pointed as a niphal or a piel verb.
In Aramaic the pael of this verb = gopufgaca, rapdrre, or vyrapdrr® in
Dan. iy. 2, 16; V¥. 6, 1oi Vil. 15, 28, and is rendered by Theodotions

by one or other of the latter two verbs.
renders the same Aramaic

On the other hand the LXX

verb by Karagreyg® 5 in iv. 16 and Vv. 6.

Thus

the translator of the LXX, who, as we know from the rest of his translation

of the Aramaic section of Daniel, was very familiar with Aramaic, assigns
to the pael of the Aramaic verb the same meaning as the piel and hipbhil of
the Hebrew.
Hence we may assume that the bael in Aramaic could
mean Karaneyga Or gopv3dcs.
Thus we could explain out text as a
dittographical rendering of one and the same Aramaic verb.
Tf there were two verbs in the original, and this is possible, then we have
simply a mistranslation of »n3 in egoptgaCoy.
Xvi, I 9

&v..,.

ek Tis VWuXiis Tils apkos

atrSy
= nba

Wa5

1.

Similar Aramaic idioms are found also in xxii. 09; Xxxii. 3. These
anomalous Greek constructions can also be explained from a Hebrew
background.

In xxii,

0 Bud in Bio oires

) poy

ayrog

should

with

E

be emended into o% in accordance with this idiom, Thus we should have
‘ whose voice thus.
xvii. 7. Here E=r6 dpm ry Yvdbay
= Nap "iy (see my note in loc.).
1 Or possible Kooy = «rest.
2 Two

MSS. of Theodotion's

text AQ

render by taragreygw, but this may be owing to the

influence of the LXX.

5 The translator of 2 Chron. xxvi, 20; Xxxy. 21 renders the Hebrew ስጋ by karagreyga,

RR

PHP

MBOOK

NOP

ENOCH

The phrase seems to be borrowed from Jer. xiii. 16. If this is so, then
Gs which reads robs dyéuous rSy yay = N2ap Nገ., In that case we mieht
suppose that the Greek translator found one word in the text and the other
in the margin of his Semitic MS. and rendered both, and that Gs Dreserved one and

the Greek

ancestor of E the other.

The

text

in v. 9,

where E = koargiirovrau (or kpughiroyras) and Gs reads audprerty (which are

two possible renderings of the same Hebrew word), requires a similar
assumption.
XXViii. 2 Apne BévBpwoy kat &anፅ Ty

{rrepudrey.,

It would be absurd to

speak of a plain as full of ‘trees and seeds,
Here I take dn réy
rrepudrey
= hy“, corrupt for haNyገt
= «and of vegetables.
See my note
in loc. for other possible explanations.
XXIX, 2 Tkpireas

Praetorius)
= evagn.
well.
XXX. 3 ray

BévBoa.

Here

kpireas
= N31, corrupt

for NnAግ

(so

In Hebrew the corruption can be explained equally

Tpi3eoruy.

These

words

refer

to certain fragrant trees

mentioned in the preceding Verse. These trees yielded (see p. 7o, note 35)
a fragrant odour when burnt, Hence it is possible that the Aramaic hppY
(= rpiBeruw) is corrupt for hp» = Katey.
Thus: «when they burn it, it

is more fragrant &c.
Chapters XXvii-JY, from a Hebrew original.
The assumption of
a Hebrew original is required by some of the following passages, while
others would admit of either Hebrew or Aramaic.
xl. 0 ‘The third who is set over all the powers is Gabriel. There is
a patonomasia here on Gabriel's name—Nግa3 in niግ\33 »3 2y ግ.
This
paronomasia is possible also in Aramaic. In the same verse the words ‘the
second, who is set over all the diseases . . . of the sons of men, is Raphael
=bNBTግ Kn DIN 33 nin» 23 2y ግWN, contain a reference

to the derivation

of the name Raphael, which is possible only in Hebrew —NS «to heal.
XIV. 3 ‘On that day thine Elect One will sit on the throne of glory
And fie zwsll choose thesr suorgs.
The words in italics ate a translation of ¢38:; PIéሆPs
Flemming,
after the example of his predecessors, translates: « wird Auswahl treffen
unter ihren Werken.
But this is a mistranslation and would require
ኣምIበሪሆPመs
Moreover it is absurd to boot. The source of the corruption
becomes clear on rettanslation.,

Thus 36; = éxaeéerat = the Hebrew "na,

which might (2 cf. Isa. xlviii. ro) itself = Boxuudret, or else it is a corruption

INIT RODUCIION

EXT

of ina’, which normally means «will try. Thus we should read ‘And he
will try their works. [In Aramaic ግna has both meanings. Hence this
passage is indecisive.
XlVi, 4° « He will f raise up the kings and the mighty from their thrones.
Of this verse a dittograph occurs four lines later, xlvi. 5:
‘And he will put down kings from their thrones and kingdoms,
for the parallelism shows that the latter is an intrusion. On the other
hand RIlፈYRws = kagatpyce, = YE, is right (cf. 2 Chron. XXX. 14), whereas
iA
= ¢yepei = ገ 15 wrong.’ Ny, would then be a corruption for ies.
lii. 9 ‘All these things will be Tf denied and destroyed from the face
of the earth. Here Dillmann and Flemming try to give a better sense
to the passage by rendering Yh;
werden verschwinden and Beer
werden vernichtet werden’
But the word is unexampled in these senses
in Ethiopic. The explanation is discoverable through retranslation., E =
gaTapunilroyrat kai payvrgrovrat. Lhese two verbs are dittographic render.
ings of the Hebrew nIas,,
1vi, 7 «Till the number of their corpses is through their deatht.
Afni = ek gaydiroy ary = ErNii», corrupt for iat» « more than myriads.
lx. Io « Their judgment has been determined upon and will not be
T reckoned before me.
Here «will not be reckoned before me
= oy
MoytrgNrerat Kara Tpdrardy oy = 38) 31 2 where the verb is Corrupt
for yn = « will be withheld’ used of judgments and calamities. Thus
the text
= ‘their judgment has been determined up and will not be
withheld by Me. This restoration is Dossible also through Aramaic.
1xv. Io ‘ Because of the f months which they have searched out and
through which they know &c. Here Halevy (Zorn. Asiar., 374-375, 1867)
objects that Rውራኝi signifies ‘ months and never astrology, and that the
knowledge of the future could not have been regarded as criminal by
the authors of Enoch.
Hence he conjectures that b'vHn (= « months ) was
a corruption of yn = « sorceries. This conjecture restores sanity to
the text.
Ixv. 11 ‘ For these there will be no place of refuge for ever. Here
0A; = Snorrooyy = nan, which should here have been rendered
‘repentance,
Ixvii. 13 ‘ These waters of judgment minister to the healing of the
1 Tn the notes in loc, 7 have supposed Ly) and Diss 5

XXXL

JHE

BOOK,

OF

ENOCH

body of the { angels. Here, as Halevy (PD. 366-367) has remarked, « angels
is an impossible reading. It = ob) Corrupt for pha) kings.
xix. 13 ‘ This is the number of Kesbeel., The word « number’ is
here unintelligible. The context requires some such words as ‘office,
‘function.
Halevys explanation is very satisfactory.
He holds that the
translator here rendered nገip8 by ‘number when he should have given
charge, «function.
From the above restorations on the basis of a Hebrew original, the
majority of which are not possible on the hypothesis of an Aramaic
original, the natural conclusion is that the chapters XxXxvii-lXx were
originally written in Hebrew.

Chapters laxii-xxxt.

From Hebrew most probably.

Lxxvii. I « The frst { wind is called the east because it is the first:
and the second the south because the Most Hieh f descends there. We
have here two paronomasias, one misrendering and one corruption. First
of all, as Halevy points out, the Greek translator erred by rendering min
Pi Wind instead, ‘Of Dy darter
NEE Ezek: XI: 20 Next Nast
High descends = by 1, corrupt for bn Nh
= «the Most High abides,

a play on piገ7 «south.
Ni5ግp.

Finally, the ‘east’ =b1p: hence it is «the first’

In Verses 2, 3 there ate similar paronomasias.

EST
EE OTE ES,
Ixxviii. 3. See note 25.
RR DE EERO
Chapters [xXxxiii-#c, from Hebrew

(or Aramaic ?).

The

evidence is

here very scanty as yet.

XXX. 11. Here a corruption in text can be emended by retranslation
into Greek or Hebrew.
See note in loc.
XC, 18 ከደ £ቤሆP = exavyrey ¢m ayroys, a clear Hebraism = ho
Envoy. See my note 16 on D. 185.
XC. 98 ' The first . ... became a f word.
Fete E = pitas but the
Greek was not filha but mu—a transliteration of DR = « buffalo. If we
were sure that pnua stood originally in the Greek translation it would
be an argument in favour of an Aramaic original; for pnha would = io").
Capers Xci-ciu, from a Hebrew original.
xXciil. 5. See note in loc.

INTRODUCTION

XXXII

xciii. 8. See note on the Hebrew construction.
REO
BEE’ Hote:
XCiIX. 6. Here E=eis Juépay aikaros dgtaAeinrou, but in Tertullian
(De Jdof., INV) the phrase appears as ‘in diem sanguinis perdstsiowss
= eis
Muépay

aiuaros

QBtaXeinrouy.
has ገ».
ci, 4.

Qneoaeias
= TND ገ

So Symmachus
Here

the text

bo

rests on

else on a corruption in the Hebrew
for "Ppa ‘ sailors.

NNDB

ESN

where

TN

is corrupt

fot ዝህ» =

renders "y» in Job xvi. 8 where Massoretic

BRN CRED

a mistake

of the Greek

translator or

text, whereby '55y ‘kings was read

USED

TNE HITS

EDERION:

G2 denotes the Greek Version.

G* denotes the Greek fragments preserved by Syncellus: where there is a duplicate
version G G are used,
Gs denotes the Greek fragment discovered at Akhmim, and now preserved in the
Gizeh Museum.
See Dp. xi.
EF denotes the Ethiopic Version.
apc geap, &cs the Ethiopic MSS. described on pp. xvii sqd.

hmt, = homoioteleuton.
1 1 The use of these brackets in G’ Gs i-XXxii means that the words so enclosed,
thoueh only in one of these authorities, are also in E. Such words in EO go
back to Greek archetype. In IXXxxix. 42-49 and in cvi these brackets simply
denote that the words so enclosed in G and L are not in E, but may nevertheless
go back to the archetype.
| | The use of these brackets in G* Gs means

that the words

so enclosed

are

found only in one of the authorities, and may or may not geo back to the
Greek archetype.

() Words so enclosed are supplied by the Editor.
tf Words so enclosed are corrupt.

UL | Words so enclosed are interpolated.

መጽጠፈፉ፡

ህዛኛኻ፡

1. 1-5.

መጽጠፈ፡
1. ቃሲ;፡ በረከት፣

ዘሄኖሕክ፡

በከመ፡፡

ዛናኻ፡

ባረክ፡ ሣፉያ፤፡ ወ’ጻ.ድቃ፤፤ ኣሰ ሀሰዉ፣ ዴኩኑ፡

በዕለ

መገንዳቤ፡ ሰጸሰስሉ፡ “ዙስ ጳኩያ፤፡ ወረሲንኔ፡።
2. ወጸውሥይጸ፡፡

“ወ ይቤ፡ ሃኖሕ፡፡ ብኣሲ፡ ጻ.ፎቅ፡ ዘኣምኝበ፡

ኣገዚጸብሔር

[ኣንH;] ጸ0ዴን

ቲሆሁ፡፡ ክሠውታት፡ ወይሬጺ፡፡ ራኣዩ፡ ቅዱስ፡" ዘበሰማያት ዘ"ጸርጸዩኒ፡። መላኣጻክት፡ ወሰማዕኩ፡
ኣምኘንቤሆመ፡ ሺሹሉ፡ “ወጸኣመርኩ፡ ጸኔ" ተዘኣሬወጺ፡“ተ ወጸኮ፣ ሰዝ፡ ትውልደ ጸሳባ፤ ለዘ
ይዴመጽኳኣ፡ ርሣቅት።"
3. በኣንተ፡ ሣፉያን፣ ኣቤ; ወጸውሣሓላኩ፡ በኣንቲጸሆመሙመ፡ ምስለ
ዶወፀኳ፡። ቁዷስ፡ ወዓቢዶይ፤ ኣማሣደፉ፡
4. ወ“"“ጸምላሳክ፡ ዓሳም፡፡ ኣምህዩ፡። ይክከይድፎ፡። ዷበ፡ ሲና፤ ፎብር፡

ወያስተርዉ፡ በትዕዴደንቱ
ወያስችርዉ፡። “በጋ ይሰ; ጽንዑ፡። ጳምሰማይ።።
5. ወዴፈርሆ፡” ሰሴ

ወያድሰቀልቁ ትኛ
ወይነሥጸመ። ፍርሃት ። ወረዓ.ፎ;። ዓቢይ፡ ኣስከ፣ ጸጽናፈ፤ ም.ፎር።
1 fu, abcdelox.

(2 reads H) Ey;

#1 omits together with next word.

mm, 8 read Pi

HዋዲN:

3A; H (5 omits) ¥7%: 1ቢE: 2A; (ms omits together with two

next words). So &, but omits two words before last. g reads ራAይ: HCA: 2A
JF reads Hy; ቢድ; 2A: _» reads HyZPn:i 2A; and omits following Hy.
“#7.
mu, 8 read Hh;
5 G omits.
4a.
#rሮas ዙሱሉ፤ ረሲዓን፤፡ 5 ዙሱ፤ ጻኩያን
ወረሲዓን
° This is a boor attempt at rendering the phrase dvaxalBéy Tilv rapalBoእiy.
Ethiopic translators indeed found this phrase difficult, and never rendered it
literally. Cf. Num. xxiii. 7, 185 xxiv. 3, 15, 20, 21, 23. #Zmg# add AYN: which
may be a corruption of PNAS see ver. 3.
°u, bcdxa alone in EF preserve this order
as in.
All other MSS. trans.
7 9 reads ብጻ A. (sic).
Tere
Hs
supported by Num. Xxiv. 4, against G, which has Spaces.

5 So also Num. xxiv. 4.

G corrupt. Ses note 7, p.3.
gm, 5». Other MSS. read P&I: x adds AJHLRብሔEC:
1 0, 9 read ©.
5 # reads RCRA:
59 omits.
is im, #8.
gt read ACRE:
u# HACRE; The text = 4 sgeapovy. We should probably read AH: AoA or possibly
ራAE; a seer of visions (NX), of which the unintelligible RCRA
a corruption.
5 a,bcn. B~bcn read RመጽN 8 adds TትውA.E

in £9/u may be
15 mL. #9 read

CግYYi
= Aaምርኘኙቃት፡
read CY:
4 “21;
Ho’. rHይoga;

The ልም here may be a corruption of A; = እaእé. 8-9
7 0 prefixes ©. q reads ih;
15 gu, mn. m,B~n read
gu, Bn.
mh n omit.
20 mu, B~n. #9 read RAY

n ጸም

1 All MSS. wrongly prefix @ against G.

ዘሰንሰም፡

25 9 reads ያስትረጺ

CL.

au.

wu, 8 read በጽ}0; Yይሱ፡

All other MSS. read ወይፈCY:

7 dg prefixes 0.

= m omits.

5 / reads ሰማያት

5 e omits.

L. i=5.

ENOX

1. AGyos evxoyias EyOX, Kags evkGynréy éxXekrToys Bukaiovs oirtyes trovrat
€

L

eis IIuépay aréykns €éGpau1 Tdyras Toys €X0poys 5, kai Fagirovrat Bikatoun 2,
2. Kat Gyaaagey Ty Tapaf3oAly avrot eine’ EyOX, Glvgbpwnos Bikatgs, FrTty 4
ጎ

ሩ

[4

7)

[4

PJ

even

3]

[4

ኣ

ን

6

ch

[F

[ey

)

ፆ

ፆ

il 3

€

Oparts » €k geo avr® Gyéaoyueyn, ly 5 TExey 17 Tily party Tog &yioy kai Tog
ovpayog
5,
TEBétEéy
uot9 Ikat GyYLOAGYy» @yiway Tkovra €yd1, ) kai [Fie
(O51 FHkovra
D
)
]
14

BD

]

ሓ

ን

NI

9

Lt,

ግ

6

i

ጥ

N

mN

e-

Tap

3

a

e?

FANE

Ld

Te

[A

ND

BRN

Nn

@UT OV TayTa Kat €yvoy €Y@ géwp@y

10,

ኣ

ን

|

Le

ኣ

[ei

ፆ

ገ

\

ኮ)

\N

[ey

ኣ

Kat OvK €S Tily bUy Yeéyédy

[7

Btevoovuny »

GAA €nt Tሪppe ogray (¢y% Aaa 1,
8.1 Kail Tepi TOy exXekTéy vDy Aye kal
Tepi avr6y GvéAal3oy Tily Tapal3oA]y 1 uoy1,
Kai eéeXeirerat 6 tyes Vuovt 12 6 éyas €x Tis Karotkreas arog,
4. kai 6 eos Tog aiovos T ei yiv 15 Tarycet ¢ni T6 Sev Gpos,
kai pavNrerat ¥ ék Tils TapeyBoAis airog 1#
ላ
[4
ኃ
en
CD)
(
ን
io
EN
Le
ን
fe
[ey
ን
[ey
kat pamirerat €y Ti] Bvvdue, Ti}s io Xvos arog Gn) ToD obpavog [r6y ovpavQy]
[ey

መሓ

[ey

\

[a

ኣ

ጦ

[ey

[ey

ላ

5. kat boBngNrovrat Tdvres
#
JON ei os
kat\ TTerreyovrw
{7°
ot €ypNyopot
)

After e‘Ypy“Yopot the following words
are interpolated : tai
1 MS. egape.
2 E adds tai Toys dregeis.
Though E omits, the clause may gawgty
grbe genuine.
“ To be taken With Sveyuéw? or omitted.
°F = S@gaእuoi atroy which Kpuba €y nag!
Tots Gepots TRS
gives better sense, and agrees with Num. XXiv. 4 sy ነጋ.
5 Mv must either be Kai
uggioywritten jv Or jv. But the context is against the former, and iv is quite intelligible. Tat TdyTa T&
dtkpa 73s Ess
ኣ

Hk

ን

NN

[6

ላ

ፆ

#

[4

ጦ

#

ጦ

Py

Kat AXIu\rerat auyroys Tpouos Kat polos kéyas uéxXpt Ty Tepdray Ti}s Yis

Tt is to be taken with tgxeyt as forming a periphrastic conjugation = ‘he was
thavingt.
7 = MIR, gxew is found as a rendering of WN in Job xvii: 095 xviii. 20;
XXI. 0; XXX. 105 15. xii. 8, and it may be so here.
Of course MN could not have
stood in the original. It is corrupt for nin = Spev.
Our text is thus brought into
agreement with E FeéoAs

and Num. xxiv. 4 (N’ ግ’ ni») which our author is here

using.
Tt is possible, of course, that the corruption arose in G, but it would be
difficult to explain how. The passage in E = ‘Ev@oX, ¢ivgpeoros Sikasos od x OeoD Spgaxkoi avroy Gyeeoyueyot kai £@opa Ti)y gparty Toy dyiou. 5 Corrupt (?) fOr kari Tey ovpavdy as in E,.
Ei = ily fgetgay ou oi dyyexot.
10 MS. geopey,
1 So Swete emends from

5 Text corrupt.

ye aእእe.
Can hardly be right: unexampled in Enoch; E = kai, 5 Corrupt possibly
for sxeigey as in E.
aE = Uy Or €y ri} TapevBoእ.
This is supported also by the
parallelism.
» E = raእevgilovrat: a sense which accords perfectly with X. t2=14,
&c., whereas rrevrovzew Bives a sense wholly at variance with all that follows. It is
possibly a deliberate change. Flemming suggests rriigovrew; see next note.
5 This
clause, which E omits, I have removed to the margin as an interpolation at variance
with the closing genuine words of this verse, and with all that follows on the fate of
the Watchers who were imprisoned beneath the hills, The scribe who added it was
possibly thinking of Slav. En. Xviii, where the singing of the Watchers is mentioned,
ዴ

4

መጽሐፈ:

ሃዛኛኻ፡

1. 6=90.

6. ወዴደነኘፁ፡ ጸፎበር፡ ነዋሓን፡
ወድደቴሕቱ፡ ዘውፃር፡ ነዋጋት።
ወይዴትመሰዉ፡፣ ከመ፤ መዓሪረ፡ 7ራ ጳምላባህብ፡፡፣
7. ወችሠጠጥ፡?’ ም.ፎር፡
ወቤ ዘውስት፡ ም.ድር፡ ይትሕኾል፡
ወይከውን፤ ፍትሕ፡ “ሳዕ0ሰ፡ ሹሱ፡፣
5. ወ[ላ0ሰ; ጻፎቃኽ፣ ሹሎመሙመ፡|? ሰጻ.ፎቃኝኽ'› በሳመ፤ ዴገብር፡"
ወዩዓቅቦመሙ፡። ለጠፉ.
ወይከውን ሣህል ሳዕሴሆሙ፡
ወድክውኒ፤ ሹሎመ ዘጸምባክ፡
ወ“ድይሴቤርሑ፡።
ወይትበረኩ፡

ወድዴበርህ፣ ሎሙ

ብርሃ፤፡ ጾምላኳኽ፤”

0. ወናሁሆ፡ “መጽ;
ወያሕጕሎመ፡”

ኽ

በችትኣልፊት ቅዱዷሰን፡'" ከመ፡ ዴፃበር፡ ፍትሐሕ፡ ተለዕሌሴሆመሙመ፡

ሲ።ረሲዓን

ወ“ይዘልፍ፡። ሹሉ ዘሥጋ፡ በጻንት፡ ዙሱ፡ “ዘገብፉ፥ ወ።ረስዑፁ፡።
ሳዕሴሆ፣ ጋጥጻን፡። |ወ ረሲዓን
mh mn read YPN: 9 PH; (sic).

= mtu, B~e/n. £ reads 1pሣYi 9 YP:

(sicy. e/ PD n omits.
2g reads መሰ
read ሰም; af ታሰTምi
rm prefix ©.

iu, Bn.

“2 prefixes@.
‘29,7. mf, Bat
/u8. au read Efi
* # omits.

° Dittogeraphy of words before and after.
0 a-m,n. m, B= read"#pINi
nm
B-5 aባd ሎመሪ
። a5 ዓዲ፤ ሎሙ
5 wu reads D0.
13 g omits, together with
next two words.
mB.
wu read yA;
5 9 reads ይሴብሑ;
y omits

initial ©.

1 2, 0 read ACYY:

7 G omits.

® e reads AA

m omits.

This and the two preceding words are drawn, as Beer has pointed out, from
Deut. Xxxxiii. 2 Vp naani5 Pn).
Since the LXX here renders civ uuvpudrey Kagiis,
it is clear that our author followed the Hebrew.
Observe further that the
personal pronoun (= His) is wanting in E, as in Deut. xxxiii. 2 and in PseudoVigilius, though found in G, Jude 14, and the Pseudo-Cyprian.
5 Corrupt for

Af
ወያሕ .

5o G, Jude 15, Pseudo-Cyprian.
= Add tras

reads ዴዝAS: 9/። ዴዛሰፍ፡
CስዓPw

a mgInXya.

Pfu BHJny,a read

with G, Jude 15, Ps.-Cyprian, Ps.-Vigiltus.

5 ዴትዋቅስ፡

H= mdvrey spyeoy Ti)s Sregeias atr®y By.

with G, Jude 15 (Ps.-Cypr.) osama.

TO

a Corrupt and defective for Wi Ae;
5 Em. from ሰዩ; in accordance

After ረስ0s the following clause from Jude 15,

Pseudo-Cyprian, and G should be restored in the text ወበ;
5 Fu, 8, ZFmng read in acc.

#ሉ: 0901; Hi

ENOX

1. 6-9.

6. kai retgnlrovrat [kai Terogvrat kai BuaXugilrovrat] Gon IAG
kai TaTéwao0irovrat Bovyvoi iNnXoi [Tog Btapviivat Gp |
kai Takilrovrat ©s Ki00s QT) TpordéToy Types [¢y pAoyi]?
[ey

#

ላ

N

7.

Kat

)

ያ

€

BaxtrglreTat

[ei

1] YI

[fF

መኣ

[ey

Le

Li

xia

pa-

Jupe x4, 15.

YB,

kai Tdyra gra €rTiy €ri T]]S Yi}s GToAéeirat
kai Kpigts ErTat Kari TavTay.
8B. kai eres Ty Btkaiay Tiy eipNvny Touet,
kai FET ኣ Toys €KAXeékToys €rTat uzTilprts 5
AN

t

e#

\ኣ

2]

ላ

ን

A

IN

ሓ

ኦ)

[ey

Ls

እ

\ኣ B

[ey

ፆ

N

ን

ያ

ፆ

{xat eipnlwn,
እ)
ን
ኣ
F
[i
Kat €T @UT OVS YeémlreéTat €Aeos,
kai EroyTat Tyres Tog geo,
kai Tilv TevBokiayt 5 Bret avrois,
ኣ

#

kal TéiyTas évAoylet.
#

kali Tévray

uty]
€

መ

Gvrujuyrerau 9, [kai Bongire,

ያ

L)

[ey

7

ጦ

ን

\ኣ

mn

€

Pn

[n

KDirty KaTé TéyT oy,
NE
[
[ay
(D) kal QTOAérat 1s { Tgvras 1Tos are3eis,
ኣ
[in
(<) kat (€eAéyEat# Taray rdpka

a) Tept Téyray €pyey
N

[A

37

T

Tis dref3eias ary
LN

ኮ

#

ን

[ey

ኻ]

oy NreBnray
ላ
Ley
(8) (kai FEXANDS» By €AGAMTay XGyayT15 Kar

avrog auaprexot &reBeis.
ን

Le

avr@y Gy NreBnray
(8) kai Tepi Téayrey TOy FKAPSy Qy
eAdAnray Kar’ arog Guapreoxot &reBeis.
PsEuDO-CYPRIAN: Ad Novafionuim
(Fartel's Cyprian, ii. 61).
Ecce venit cum multis milibus nuntiorum suorum (a) facere iudicium de

(9) Et perdere omnes impios
(<) Et arguere omnem carnem
(a) de omnibus factis impiorum quae
fecerunt impie
(8) et de omnibus verbis impiis quae de

Py

[F

-

180% NAgey Kyptos €y €&yiaus vptérty
arog (a) Tofirat Kpiruy KaTé Tiyray
(P<) kat €X€yEat Téavras Toys rel3ets
(a) Tepi Tavrey TOy €pyav Grefgetas

omnibus

3

kai pavrerat avrois @b&s
ኣ
i
VE)
ህ
N
ie
lio
kai Toulrét €r avroys eipilwny 5.
9. TOTTI? Epxerat riyy rais11 vptdrty
[Lairog cai Tots] 15 giyiots atrog, (a) oviirat
ኣ

[A

i

tDeot locuti sunt peccatores.
Psrvpo-ViGirus (Migne 62, col. 363)
Et in epistola Iudae apostoli:
Ecce veniet Dominus in millibus

(a) facere iudicium
(9) Et perdere omnes impios
(<) Et arguere omnem carnem (a) de
omnibus operibus impietatis eorum

: These words are omitted by E and against the parallelism.
2 Bracketed
5 A dittography.
+ These two
because omitted by E and against sense.
MS, tteya.
Oks
words look like two renderings of the same Hebrew word.
7 MS. yemrat.
5 Corrupt for
Wisd. iii, 0 kai srerkor)) €y Tois €xaekroie aro.
ebogiay,
CG thus
Ci. Sir. xliii. 26 where the same corruption occurs in MS. B.

5 This verse though omitted by E is probably genuine, being sup= Bios. Sok.
i Ei = kai igov: Jude, Pseudo-Cypr. and Pseudo-Vig. igov.
ported by the parallelism.
Read éyiass
i
MS. TOUS,
= Interpolated against E and all other authorities.
5 MS. aroyeres, but the parallelism, Pseudo
instead of déyiots to agree With vptdety.
# MS. Aeygee,
CYypr. and Pseudo-Vig. and £ require droxéat, Other edd. roa éres.
5 Undoubtedly genuine
Parallelism and Jude, Ps.-CYpr. and Ps.-Vig. require eAeéyéat.
though omitted by E. G adds dittographic clause kai repi Tdvreoy oy KareAሪAnay.
Additional Note on 7. 9.-—1n order to arrive as far as possible at the original
form of 1.9 1 have printed the two Greek and the two Latin Versions of it in

6

መጽሐፈ:

ህዛኛ፡:

[Tr TN

11. ጠይቁ; ሹሉ፡ ዘውስት፡ ሰማይ፡ ገብረ፡ ኣፎ፤ ጺይመይጡ፡

ፍናቁሆመ። (ወ)ብርሃናችት፣

ዘውስተ ሰማደ፡ ከመ ሰ ደሠርቅ፡ ወ’"የ0ርብ፡፡ “ሥፉዕ)፡ ዙሱ፡፡ በበዘመኒ፡፡ ወጺዶትዓደዉ፤፣
ኣምሥርዓተመሙ፡፡፡ 52. *ርኣይዋ፡ ሰም.ድር፡ ወለብዉ፡' “በጻንት፡ ምግባር፡" ዘዶችገበር፡ በሳዕሌሃ፡
ኣምቁዳሚ፡ ኣስከ; ተፍጻቱ፡ ከመ፤ ጺዴትመየዩየጥ፣ ዙሰ፡።” ምፃባፉ፡። ለጸምላሕ፡ ኣንዘ፡
ያስችርx።“"
3. ርጻይዎ፡” ሲሰሕጋዶ፤ ወሰኻክረምት ከመ፡ “ሹሱ፡ ም.ድር፡። መልጸት፡ ማዩ"
ወደመና፡ ወ“ጠል፤ ወዝናም; የዓርፍ፤። ሳዕሴሀ። 111. “ጠይቁ ወርኣዩ፡። “ስ ዕፀወ; ኣፎ፡
ያስትርጳዩ፡ ከመ፡ ዶቡስ፡ ወሸሱ፡ ጸቍጽሲሆሙመ፡።”
ንፍ ዘኳንበሰሲ፡ “፲ወ፪ 0ፀው፡ ዘጽዶገኘገፉ”
ጸባ” ይጸንሑ፥ ጳምብሱድ፤ ኣስከ ድመጽል፡ ጋኗበስ፡ ኣም።ካልሌ፡" ወኣም፤ ሯ።ክረምት።።
1V. ዳ7መ; ጠዴደቂቁ;። መዋዕሲ፡ ሕጋይ፤ ከመ፡ ኮኔ;። ፀሕዶዴ፡ ሳዕሴሃ፡። በቁዳሚሃ፡። ወ።ሃጸንትሙ

ሰ; ትጋሠምሠ። ምጽላሰ፡ ወጽሳሉ፡።
1 = karayoilare.
m RR;

(sic).

hai before ACY”.

Fm. from Mf; of MSS.

2 0,

8. ድ/ read ይት

2m 0. 1 have supplied the lost © on the authority of G. 5 inserts

All other MSS. read AብCYZY:

read $3". £ reads #39:

u reads NC;

በጻንተ፡ ዋዕየ; ፀሕዶ፤ ወም.ፎርሰ፡" ትውዒ፤። ጻሞቁ፤።

” 3%;

° g reads 0

m reads “YY ERs

#7" PY

? 9 reads Cርጺኻዋ፡

ሲሰም.ድር፡

EDs

5 OYA:

WN;

«+ PL B-FBRI»0.

። 0p;

5% reads Hoi

u, a8cgs “RYO

ወሲሰበውኩ፡

FBR Ino

For the word preceding

‘9 FI8n0X.

* a. 8 reads APY AHH

in amp

bcdn.

m reads Ie;

aሪ ኣምፃበር፡፤
። /»ደ/ዕይ ለምፃብር፡
1 bcdy read ANY;
15 my prefix ©.
s g,e omit. Here E has probably lost IAC: Hውhti ምድር: AA: tt: (so OG)
through ht.
sag.
g reads JAC; 8 Jr;
5 If E has lost the clause
mentioned in note 13, then AIH: which all MSS. but 9 # read, is a change made in
E because of that loss. We should read nap; as in G.
15 = (baiverau. This is
probably a wrong rendering of the original, see note 3, p. 1. g reads ስtረk

un adds ሲሹ
5 au, Fh.

nag, B-gD0Xy.
u reads tN: ድረ:

BZ»

9 reads CAMP;

g50(5)y

WA! ምድር

I

read CART:
BP

Fead

ሣይ;
0 by» omit.
2 2 reads HS;
5 , Bh8no., m reads #3. 9 P0C¢;
ut,» POCES obcde/ 10. a-y# prefix @. / prefixes H. The right text alter all may be tN;
ei AY: Mt; OE nA; ወዘና; 3c:
=u. All other MSS. read Miቁ:
ወርጺW፥

£ has the superscription በ;

toi 0ፀው;

tሉ:; 0gፀው፡ but 4 a omit tt x adds BORE
20 a, a8. B~a8 read YT
5 Bak. aa read "Vlei

read Eg.

wu, Bread han;

5 m reads ARP

7” mu write in full CE: ACባOE; a reads g for 8g.
” Fm. from AA (Flemming).
"m/w. Other MSS.

1 myZu read in full “WANE

MSS. read Mtቁ:

SFm0.

©.

5 m omits.

=sm9,8.

/# read ራት;

® a prefixes 0.

5 gu.

5 u. Other

m reads py:

ዞ 8 በቅፎሜ፡
7 en omit.
Sag, FBI0%x. g,aycde readችly.
5 wu reads
ወጽሳሳባጊ፡
a0 Fu. mreads DC:
9, B-efo read PECL
sfo(5) ምድር

«i m erases.

9 reads Yi

“8g.

m reads ሞቅ:

I Aapውቁi

/።, 5 ቁች

11. r—1I1.

ENOX
ፆ

[4

NY

2

Pip

#

hy)

%,

C=

ን

ን

ፆ

N

1

ኣ

po

N

11. Karayomraré Tayra T6 €pya €y T@ ovpay®, TOs ovk IIAXoiwray Tas ogous @vr@y,
\
[es
ኣ
2
ጫ
ን
መሓ
t
ኣ
[A
ኦ)
#
\ኣ
#
[4
(i
Kai? Toys PaoTIlpas Toys €» TO ovpayy, ©S Ta TayTa GyaTEANet Kat Byyet, TeTayluéyos
3)
ኣ
ን
EkagTos €y TO Terayluéy® Kap, (kai Tats €oprais airy paivovrat, kab OU TaDa=
ፆ
Ny
ኃያ
1
Ld
N
[oN
ላ
[4
ላ
[ei
3
[ey
L)
Baivovrty Ty iBiay Taguy. 2. iBeré Tily Yily kai Btayolgnré Tepi T&y €pyeay Ty €y
J

መሓ

ን

መሓ

ኽ

LH

ንነe

ን

መኣ

eS

[a

[4

[ny

[4

ari] Ytyvouéyey &T apXIlS expt TeAéOéas,

[TU

ws

AY

[Fey

[HT

\

N

ላ

[oy

ey

Kat TO XéUhOyG . .

A

መሓ

TI

[A

ጦ

yy

ን

eirw pgapra,

TovBty TOy €Ti Yils, GAAS 1Tyra ¢pya geog 1 guiy! paiverats.
ሓ

[4

ኣ

ጋ

fe

@s ovk axAototrat

2

3. (Bere Tily gepeiay
[4

1. Karaluagere Kat iSeré Tdyra Ta Beygpa

4

parallel columns.
That the Latin are versions of Enoch i, 09 and not of Jude 14, 15
was shown by Zahn in 1890.
The words, Et ferdere omnes impios, Ft arguere
omnem carhem furnish irrefutable proof of this view.
This being presumed we have to determine the relative

faithfulness of the
Versions. First of all it is clear that Jude is the least original as it compresses
the two clauses (6) and (<) into one, and introduces upeos after Ages. Next the
Pseudo ~Vigilius is defective: phrases are wanting in (a) and the entire clause (8)
is omitted. The Pseudo-Cyprian is the most perfect of the three as regards the
parallelism, though corrupt in nuntiorum (= éyyeእey) suorum, Deo for eo, and wanting in impii after peccatores.
Turning now to G we see that it agrees in form
with the Pseudo-Cyprian and Pseudo -Vieilius, save that against all authorities it adds
after yey a clause, which is obviously a dittography. [he interpolation in the first
line is noticed in the text.
Jats fhe Sfrucfure zs wel esfablishedgs namely, fhiree clauses
(a) (BY, (<Y, Zhe Jas oF whech 2s subdrvzged info fwo (a) ang (8),
On the other hand the infinitives Derdere (= droxéat) and arguere (= eA€yégat)
are right, and this evidence, together with E, shows that we should not read droxéree
and (S)Aeyéfes in G but droxéat and eAeyéat. [he parallelism also supports this view.
Having now ascertained the structure and details of the text we approach E and

find that it preserves aif fhe cjawses, though in the case of (6) and (8) defectively, and
of (ay corruptly and defectively. Thus it omits mdvras in (6) and ai rxእnp®y ®y
eAdMnray Aye

in (8).

We conclude, therefore, that the original form is to be rendered as follows in English :
Ee:
Behold i He comes with His holy myriads
(a) To execute judgment upon all,
(6) And to destroy all the ungodly,
(<) And to convict all flesh
(a) Of all their works of ungodliness which they have ungodly committed,
(8) And of all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.
1 Supplied by Swete.

in ver. 1 for JNXoieoray.

* So Dillmann and Radermacher from aAAvovyrat. CE.nAAvoray

®$ =NN) = « suited’: cf. Esth.ii. 95; id.vi.4 for this meaning.

At any rate cbaiyerat gives no appropriate sense.

# 111. 1v—V. 1a lost through hmt.

8

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

FV.

S.

ሕፉር፡ ወጸንትሙስሰ። ጺትሕኽሱ፡ ከዪፉዶታ። ሲሰሲም.ፎር፡ ወጺ'ኵኩቸሐሕ፡። በኣጻንት፥፡ ውዕ ።
ዣ. ጠይደቁ። ኣፎ፡ “ዕፀው በ"ሐመልማሰ፡ ጸፉቍጽል፡፡ ዴትከደፉ፡ ወድይፈርዩ፤ ወ"ለብዉ፡ በጻንጌ፡
ዙሱ፡ ወጸኣምፉ፡ በከመ፡ ተ ገበርክመሙመ፡ ሰጻሱንቱ፡ ሹሎመ፡፥ " ዘሕያው፡ “ ለዓሲም፤ 2. ወምፃባፉ፡
ቅፎሆሁ፡ ለሰ፡ ዓመት ዘይክከውን፡። ወሹሱ፡ ምፃባፉ፡። ይትቀነይ: ሎቱ ወጺይትመዩጥ፡።
ጸሳ፡ በከመ፡ ሠርዐ፡ ጾምላሳኳ፡ ከመዝ፡ ይትገበር ዙሱ።" 3. ርጳዩ፤"፡ ኣፎ፡ ጸብሕርት።› ወጸፍሳባኘ፡
ሣቡረ፡። ይዴፌጽመ፡ ገብሮመ፡

4. ወጸንትሙስ፡ ጴተዓገሥመክሙ፡። ወጺገበርክመሙ፡ ትኣዛ;። ኣፃዚኣ፡።
ጸሳ፡ ተፃዓደውሕመ፡።” ወሕመ ይሕመ ዓቢያተ” ወ.ፎፉኣት፡። ቃሳ
በ“ጸፈ፡ ርኩሰት”

ዘዚጸክመ፡

በ"ሳዕሰ፡ 0በየ፤ ዚጸሁ፣

ዴዶቡሰ፣፡ ልብ፡ ጺትክውነክመሙ፡” ሰሳም።።
5. ወ።በኣንትሽ፡ ጸንትመ፡ መዋዕሲኻዝሙ፡ ትረፃሙ፡
ወዓመፓታ፡

ሕዴወት “ክመ

ወ“(ዓመታት;

ገኮልክሙ፡)።

። ትጋኮሱ፡”

ይዴበዝሣ፡” በርፇግመት” ዘለዓሰም፡

ወጺይክከወንክመሙመ፡ ሣህል

, mm prefixes ©.
4 a reads ©.

፡ መ adds ብዙጋ፡ ትጌ3ዩ፤ ወ.

? 2 reads ri

5£.

5 am.

miu, 8B read POF:

Im, B read ይደ
9g POE;

Ty

Other MSS. read ቁ; 9 adds ወርXኩ፣
* /u,8. 2m read 09©; በቢ. 9 09; 0.
2 m reads RRP
0 9 omits.
1 a (save that my read AA and 9 inserts
hap; before WN).
Corrupt for IAC; AANYE: .hማW; = G sroinoey airs ofires,
f° 8,w emended a into 'JAéi Anes AANYE: (ase gnox aNiYi) Ws
Flemming
proposes "IAብéi ho'H:i AN” or ARN".
= 9 reads Hit;
1 Org ORY
rሩads ትኘበፉ፤ ያ ምግባር
5 a7. 9, B read “PIE
a0. g reads መ
B"Eትመtጡi X omits. I omits initial ©.
17 g reads RAC:
m adds Aሲሰጸሕሐዲዷ፡
"7/0, dy. 5oG. All other MSS. prefix ©.

ባወራቱ፡

ሃ። ባሕራ

1 == Shoies G.

So also in Job i.16.

5 g reads WN:
» mg,8. # reads

See Dillmann’s

Lex. 598.
5 eFhno omit.
Sa, FBRInOX.
Other MSS. YO".
X trans.
after next word and adds DARN;
# 9 reads TYAዛH: 0.
5 any read
ጸ7ዚጸብሔር፡
“ያመ Fቋ/I።ox. ያ, BJS Inox read ች0.
9,8. a-g read 301;

5B. a reads DEፉhi
is here used as a noun.
ርዙስት፡ ያ ርዙሰት).

= mg /u save that / reads በRE; C", 9 A: CAN
Chr"
# reads AM Chi
8 reads በAፍ: CNY (JI xy
so B omits.
au mfB., Zu read “TY.
"YY.

£ trans. this and next word before ድሳ
5 mg read ሰላ;
5 Z omits.
Ng omits.
»g,Fno.
reads Th.
mg
BJRnOYY.
=m omits.
5 Added in accordance With G.,
5m omits.
Sag. 9g reads CITY; BCI;
5 F reads uA

V.i-s

ENGX

9

V. 65 Ta PUAAa XAepé ¢y abrois rxénoyra T6 Bévbpa1 kai [Ts] # § Kaprፅs
airSy eis Tiuly kai Bdéav.1 Biayolgnré kai yv@rel Tepi Tdyray T6y foyay
mn
arog,መሓ Kal volrarée (rt ges (v1
éroinrey ard ores $, ¥ kai\ (f# eis Tdvras robs
3
#
2
N
ን
i]
aiSyas"”
2. kai T6 ¢Dya arog [iTayTa, es
Oa
€Toulgéy,
€LS TOUS
atwyas
ሻዕ
ገ
[
cytavrog eis €ytavrby Yuvdueva 1rdyra otiras, kat Tyra gra dTorexoirty airy
መሓ

[ey

እ

ር

T& €pya, kai ovk QAXovogyvrat
[ey

]#

ላ

Py

Ld

Le

(ayr@y T& ¢pya,! &AN' errepei
Py

ard

ኣ

ንዓ

መጦ

éenerayilys r&
Ni

\

Tara yiverat.
3, {Bere T6s 1] gdAara Kai oi Torakol &s guo(es &roréxogety,
i kai obk GAXotogry 1 ar@y T épya (&n9 Tay Adyey avrog1,.
Ley

t

nm

N

ን

3

7

\

ንኣ

ጋ

#

N

N

ን

መ

N

ን

4. YTueis B¢ ovk éyeieiyarée oU6¢ éerolraré Kar TGs €vroAAS arog

Te

4AAG &ኛérTnITe, Kal KaTexaእilrare keydAovs Kai kAnlpobs AGyovs
)]
[4
3
2
ሩ
[ey
[Lm
ፆ
Ly]
[Pe
<y
TrouaTt
axagapias
Vy
KaraN Tijs
keyaxoryvns arog,

[rt KaréxaAjare €y
4

fe

)

Tots Wetuarty UuSy]
FKAMpokdpBtot obk €rr’ eionlwn Vuiy.
[

nN

ፆ

cv

ኣN
€
7
t
[ey
ሩ
m
d
|]
5, Totyap
Tasኣ 1Iuépas
Vey
vei
Karapdtcrerge

¥ kai T6 £1] 1 Tis (eis Vuéy &roetrat
kai T6 Er Tis QTexeias Uugy TAngvvgllrerat ¢&y Kardpa aldyvey,
kat obk €orat uty fAeos [cai eiolvn]s

V.4-8.

A possible restoration.

4. Yueis Bé ov éyeeivare oy8é eroulare karé TAs €yroAas arog
GAAa drérTnire kai KarTeእaMlare heydNous kai ckMnpovs Adyovs
ኮ
3
#
Cs
=
ፆ
»
PN
€vH rgkart
Gkagapias
vh@y
karaላ Tig
ueyaእorvwms
aro
H

3

CkAnpoxdpgtot,

ry

»

ዞ

e

obk €grty eipnlvn] Uuiy,

5. Totyap és Nuépas Uu@y Uueis Karapdreoge
Kai Ta €rn Te (os Uuey Groeiraw
ኣ

ላ

4

መ

መጫ

¢

መ

Ly

መ

Kat Ta er] TIlis GreoAeias Uh@y TAngvygilerat €y kardpa aieyeoy
ላ

\

B

ጫ

ን

[4

€

መ

[A

»

[A

ንዞ

Kai Ovk €rTat Uuiy €Xeos,
ኣ

Ly)

4d

የ

5 E = ra gevbpa €v PuAXots XAeopoie eérovrat,

“ E = rapropbopogos,

s

M0

of which fae; may be a corruption.
DN
° E adds geo.
s Mis:
Kaipara gat.
7 Em. by Dillmann and Lods from kara.
5 An interpolation,
E omits. Eipijun forms end of ver. 4.
€

10

መጽሐፈ፡

6. በውኣኳ፲ቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ትሁቡ፡፡ ስመ

ዛኛኻ፡

ዚጸክሙ፡

በርኘመት፡

VY. 0-9
ዘሰንሰም፤

ለዙሱ፡፡ ጻድቃን

ወ።ኪያክመሙ፡ ይረፃመሙ፡?፡ ጋጥጻን፡"
. .. ዘልፈ ወሰክሙ፡፡ ተሣቡረ፡ ምስሰ፡፡ ጋጥጻን።

7, ወሰሕፉያን፡ ይከውን ብርሃን" ወፍሥሓ፡ ወሰሳም፡
ወኣሙንቱ፡። ዶወርስቱ፡ ሰም.ድር፡
ወሰዝሙሰ፡ ረሲዓን ዴክውነክመሙ፡። ርፃመት።።
8. ወጸጃሃ;" ይትወሀቦመሙ፡ ሰሕፉያን፡ ጥበብ፡
ወሸሎሙ፡ ኣሎንቲ" የሐዴይዉጪ፡
ወጽጺድይደፃመሙ፡ ጽብሶ፡;። ዚጺበረሲዕ፡።” ወጺበትዕቢት'፤
ጸሳ፡። ዴገንዩ፤ ዘቦሙ፡ ጥበበ፡።

9. ወ።ጺድይደገመሙመ፡ ጸብሶ፡።

ወጺዴትኬነኒ፡። ሹሉ፡ መዋዕሲ፡ ሕይወትሙ፡
1 = Borere, whereas G has srra.

AC7 ሰድ"

But since the phrase YW:

ስ:

Hana:

i5 clearly from Isa. 1xv. 15 "vTap yay? Day PPIs, it is probable

that E is right and G corrupt. Again geere is naturally a rendering of 33nn. 1s this
a corruption of Sin = taraእeiyvere.
2 a-m.
m reads mመዋ0A:
ደወ
nai
ኣመዋዕሲ፡

ሃ፡8 ሰላመ

35 LXX

has here eis mእyuovmy = nyo.

[i reads Cot:

but originally prefixed 0.
« m reads Arts
° This supposes ius tarapdioovras.
5 This should correspond to oi tarapeouevot.
7 Corrupt: 9 reads HA;
/ omits
next four words.
s Corrupt for OAM; £Zwu omit initial ©. 9 reads AA
¢e omits DA together with next word.

we should read Ane; Phi

5 = Guog erd Corrupt fOr Suovrat.

Thus

= ¢% iuiy Suotvras which is here = yay ba3 = ‘by

you (the sinners) will invoke imprecations, i.e. invoke on themselves, if faithless,
the IEvils that, fave’ befallen: Pou.
AEE AES EU Der RE
ea EY 0
oF mu. g,n omit initial ©. 9,:, 8 add 0.
1 g reads ብCYYH;
5 m# omits

initial © and adds 0.
35 g/u, 8. ድመ read ይኩን
4 bBo. ayo
read Cot:
5 Em. m, acdeykin read DRY: £9/u, b/ oxy ay Amy:
15 gu read ጥበበ;
7 08.
Zm read AYE:
uw omits.
5 a, Binoy.
aycdFi x ap read AA:
" 0u prefix ©.
” 9 reads AN
“£9. m/,B read
Tበብ; # omits.
a7, ceIn. 0, a0 gFB0RV ab omit. “EmRIB-DX. Fux read

ጸበሳ፡

= nou 6-4 Zh dወጺEYh",

(cf. Ps. ¥. io).

REY WH: = ob vpegfrovrat = YEN, ND

But punctuated as So N, Nጋ the words = og ui) Sudprerw as in O.

Or E=bBen corrupt for \yvis,=G.,

In any case the corruption was in the Hebrew.

1 E = Borere.
fora corrupt.
See note 1 above.
= See note 3 above.
Observe Hebrew idiom. See note 1 above.
« M5. reads auaprot.
° The
first two clauses which I have bracketed are Christian interpolations.
So also
Radermacher.,
The remaining clauses are mainly doublets of ver. 1. FE omits.

V. 6-9.

ENOX

11

6. Tre grrat1 T8 Gyuara VuSy eis Kardpay
i?

Kat
F

ሮ

#

€y Vuty

Kat

ላ

[2

TVTEeS

ኣ

gf

KaTaDay
OVT at
]

chic

Ot

4

aapToXot

ላ

est

-

ገ

TaVTES
Kat

€

እን)

KaTaDpelLeyOt

[ey

ጋ

daelBets

\4

aidyvtoy Tarty Tots Buxalots,
[4

Ot

<b

e

መ

H)

Uy

#

A

መሓ

OoOvyT at,
9

ን

[kai Tdvres oi auapr (©A)ot # Xapilroyrats kai ¢rrat
Fs

ላ

€Aeo0s

Pr

Kat

)

eipilwn

ኦ!

Kat

ፆ

L4

€rieiketa,

ን

€aTat

=

መ

#

avrois

ፆ

c

ey

\

ey

avrots AVrLS Guaprt@y kat Tay

aTpta,

KXMpovolwirovrty Ti)y YIiy]?
( kai TErty Vuiy Tois &HapTeAots ovx Vrdpéet rornpia,

[ey

pas

ኦ;

#

aya0oy,

ላ

ን

Kat

avrot

\

kl

ኣ

[pe

የ

ሓ

3

ሓ

ን

r

/

#

6

ኸ|

[6AA8 €rt Tdyras Yhés KaTaayret Kardpa.] 7
ኣ

m

L)

ጦ

Li

[ey

ላ

#

)

9-7

B

7. Kat TOtS €KAEKToLS €Tat POs Kat Xapts Kat étpilyn

»

kai avroi KAMpovourovcty Tily Yily,
Viv Be rots dreBérty €orat kardpa.
8. Tre Bogileerav rois éxaexrots [@8s kat Xdous, kal aro KAnMpovouilr ov
N
[a
[4
U
©
ጋ
ሓ
09
[6
TY»
YIv,
Tre
Bogrerat
rary
Totsመ éxxexrois?
| copia,
ጦ

Ia)

ጦጫ

\

kai Tdvres ovrot Glrovrat,

kai ob ui] Guaprioyrat €rt oy kar QréfBetay 100 otiré kari Vrepnpay(ay,
2
[4
[4
[an
[4
3
#
ያ
IE
kal\ €rrat ¢y Gy0pdn®
Tepertrkéy®
8s
kalREGyg06ne
¢ruTiluoyt
nua.
ን

IN

0. kai oy ui] TAMuueANrovrty

ob8t ui) Sidprerty das Tas iluépas Tis (as atréy,
6. Tére Geeré Ta Gydhara Uhéy eis kardpay aieytoy marty Toig Buxaiots,
kai €y Uuiy KaTapdrovrat dvres oi karapeeyot,
kai Tdvres oi Guaprexoi kai drefgeis €y Uuiy Quovyvrae
kai Taty thiy Tois GuapreoAois ovxX irdpéet eornpia.
ላ

#

H

t

ላ

ኣ

ን

መ

Ly

Ly

መ

ን

መሓ

7. Kat Tots €kAekTois €oTat Pas kai Xdpts Kai eipflvn,
[A
መጫ
kai airoi KAMpovouilrovty Tily ‘Yi,
ላ

መ

H

መ

AN

an

ኣ

[A

ኣላ

EE

Uuty Be rois dareBerty grat Kardipa.
8. Tore Bognrerat Trois exxexrois opia,
ላ
(
ዯ
A
kai TdyTes obrot (foovrat,
Kai ov ul duaprroyrat €rt oy kar’ doél3etay ore Kar Urepnpayiay
f kai €rrat ¢y dvpore rebertruey® Pas, kai Gvgpore értoTiluovt vinua.1
L)

መ

ላ

መ

ን

#

[A

ላ

Ly)

\

Ld

#

መ

#

መ

2

ን

?

ን

[4

2

\

€

#

° E omits, but this clause may form the fourth line of the stanza.
Radermacher
brackets it.
7 Em. by Radermacher. MS. reads karaእvry karapay. FE. omits clause.
Probably a doublet of 7 (<). Radermacher brackets it.
*s Also in Wisd. iii. 9; iv. 15.
" Doublet of 7 (a6).

0 Em. from aእngetay with E ረሲ0i

In ver. 7 Srey

is ren-

dered by the adjective from this root ረሲዓ}; and in x. zo drefgeias is again rendered

as here by ረሲ0:
Hence there is no justification for the various emendations
of AMIOny, Syvotay, &c. There is something to be said for dudgetay (Radermacher),.
RE = oi Be Tiy copiay SxXovres mpaeis Soovrat.

G is here like an Alexandrian addition.

19

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛና

No NO

ወ።*ጺ ይመውቱ "በመቅሠፍት'፣ ወጺበመዓት፤’
ጸሳ፡ ጐልቂቈ፡፡ መዋዕለ፤ ሕድዴወተመሙመ፡’ ይፌጽሙ
ወዴደልህቅ፡ ሕይወተመ፡ በሰሳም፡
ወጦዓመታት፡

ፍሥሓሆመሙ፡

*በጋሣት፡

ወበሰሳባም፡

ዴበዝኝ፡፣
ዘለዓለም

ውስት፣ ዙሱ፡ መዋዕሰ፣ ሕዶወተሙ።
V1. ወኮኔ፡ ኣም"
በዝ” ውሱደ፤ ሰብኳጻ፤ በጻማንቲቱ፡ መዋዕል፤፥ ተወልዳ፡ ሎመ፡
ጸዋልድፎ፡። ሠናያት" ወሳሕያት።“*
2. ወርኣዩ፥ ኪያሆን፡ መሳባኣኻት፣ ውሱደ፤ ሰማያት፣።
ወፈተውያዎገ፡ ወዶቤሰ፡ በበደናቲሆሙ፡፡ ገጌዑ፡ ንሕረዴ፤ ሰኔ ጸንስኘ፡ ኣምውሱደ፡ ሰብኣ!
ወንሲ.ደ፡"፣ ሰኔ፤ ውሱደ።
3. ወይዴቤሎመሙመ፡ ስምያዛ፡;" ጸን" ውጻቲቱ፡ መልጸኮከሙመ፡ ኣፈርህ፡
ዮኘ፡ ጴትፍቅዲጂ፡” ይትገበር;

ዝንቱ ፃብር፡ ወኣከውን፡ ጸ፣፡ ባሕቲትየ”

ፈዳዩ፡;። ሰ“ጋጢጸሻ፡

ዓባይ።። 4. ወጸውሥሉ፡ ሎቱ ዙሎመሙ፡። ወዶቤሱ፡። መሕሳ፡ ምሐል፡ ሹል፤፡” ወናው ግዝሽ፡”"
ዙል፤፡” በ“በዶናፒቲ፤ ከመ፡ ሊገሚጣጠ፡” ሰዛቲ፡ ምሕኽር፡” ወንበራ” "ሰዛቲ፡ |ምኻር፡|” ፃብር።፡”
5. ጸሃ:፡። መሕሱ፡” ሎሙ
ግቡረ፤ ወጸውገዙ፡" በበይናቲሆሙ ቦቱ።
6. ወከፉ"
ዙስሎሙመ፡ “ክልሌ ምልኣት“ ተወወረዱ፤ ውስተ፣፡ ጸርዷስ፡ ዝውኣቲቱ፡ ፎማች፣ ሰደብረ፡ ጸርሞን፤ተ።

1 u, g omit,

2 [reads በመዓት; XR

#, 5 omit the &. before መዓት:

We should perhaps read በopwet; o3Yi as in G—a familiar 0. T. phrase, 15a.
Xl, 29; ix: #05 Jer. xxii Bs RE
5 9 reads AA:
ልቁ፡
5 g omits next three words through hmt.

4 F90u, mn. my, B~n read
5 af BR Jo (5) read WE:

7 9 reads በሰላም; Pበሓu#ትi The 0 before ሰላም; is supported by 2,8 but om. by ag.
s a omits. su reads phy; x adds በውAi መዋO0ANI
" £ reads AH:
reads 0H:
5 Fg

put this andZu next word in acc.

is mu puts in acc.
25 0 reads NብNi
Pm,

Ag Onaits,

2 » reads RIC:
# ፈዳt፡
ዓቢይ

13 0 reads WS}:

bc trans. before RPAE

a reads AWN: and trans. it and wSfYi x trans. wg" and 4
"5 u reads “PY
ng. Zuread JOE:
= £ reads ሰም.
7?

Bread.

i

sha ፈBty:
5 # reads rap;

mit,

nFm0,

RIX,

5 Fmt

uw B-hIx

read RትፈYዲ

9, bcdFBInoXyD read AREY:

=m,
gu, Bg read Aዛቲ:
5 w omits.
5 0/u, Bu.

4 AH:
5 mm reads
So also Gs. £m, Os

omit. # adds WN
5 ads በበዶናቲ፤
0 F/u. m, PB read DYYPTIH:
g omits.
amt
gu,B omit.
5 wu reads በ0;
53 5 reads JR
5 o omits.
m® w omits next three words. # reads “YIብéi
ss Bracketed as an
intrusion from preceding clause. e reads Bone:
5 £. mot, B~gen read JA;
dg ብራ;

። Nei

B~ag add Ni

« omits.

= nu reads RH

”» ak omit

x trans. WA" afer 00" and Ei before it.

superscription "J; ስሕ’: መላት:

በጸዋAE; ሰብ

st,

«° zy read YTዋገH:

» G has here the

gmu read in acc.

V.O—VL.

ENOX

6.

15

kat o0 ul Grogdyarty €y Opy7 gvuog,
GAAS T6y GpUguky atyr6y Ca7]s Tuepéy TANporovgty,
kal ] (aN atr@y avén0lrerav €y eiplvn,
ፍ

N

RN

ን

k

P)

re

kai T& €rn Tils Xapgs airéy TAgvygNerat
ጋ

ጋ

Ui

<y @yaAALacet

)

9

7

ኃጦ

Kat eipilvn at@yos

€y dats Tais Juépats Tis Ces ary.
ie

G8

VI. Kai ¢yéyero ray €TAMOVvgnray
c
EN
[ey
ኦን
[4
3
3
ጦመ
oi viot T6y GyODeTey, €y ekelyvats Tats
ሩ
/
ኮ)
A
3]
¢
Ls
[a
uépats €yevmlgnay
gvyarépes apatat
{kai Kaka,
2. kai ¢gedrayro' airs of
@GyyeAov viol ovpayog Kat €eregyunray

VL. Kai €yéyero gre €nAMgVvOnray
ot vio T6y @yvgpdneoy, ¢yevwignray
atrois gvyarépes @patat.
2, kai ere-

avrds, Kat einay bbs GXMIAoVs Aebre

Tbs &AANXAovs "ExXeEéiuega €avrots
yvyaikas &n9 TOy gvyaTépay TOy &vpdnev Tie YNs.
8. kai eine Seutatés
Ny
le
hl]
[a
nN
6€' GbxXay
atr@6y
Tp9sኣ avroys
poBouat
hl ou geAlonre Tofirat 9 Toya
ጫ
STEN
[6
3
[4
Toro,
kalNN frouat €y%
dyos
gpetAérns
duaprias Wéyakns.,
4. kal Qrexpignray
avr® Téyres {kai eiToy1 Oudreokey firayTes pK kai GvageuaTireouey GXAXIIXOVS
Tog il qrorTpéyrat Ty YvOuny Tayrily,
expts og GToTékéreouey ayrily. 5. Tre
TdyTés @uogay Oho Kal Gyegeuartray
6. ray B¢ oro Bvaxkgrtot
6እእኻእ oህና.

LA

ረ

€xAXeéOuega
1

ን

nN

\

ኮ)

€avrois Yuyaikas

ፆ

€

[A

መሓ

ፆ

én
H

ኣ

Ty
[Le

Qygoé roy, kat yevmlrouey €avrots TéKva.

3. kai eireéy Seeats Tb6s avroys, 05
Jy GpXoy avr6v Ppogofuat ui oy gexnlgeré Touirat T9 pgiyha Toro, Kat
Li
i,
[6
ን
[4
c
#
€rouat
€YO
oyos
peers
Gluaprias
[4
4. Grekplgnray ou air
eyakns.
[#
3
[6
[bd
[4
Tyres,
"Oudreohey
(pk
Tayres
Katላ
Qyageuarirauey dyres GAAIAOVS uy
anoroéyat Ty Yyouny TaUrny, expt
og iy [TeXérouey arly kai] Toulreoluey
TO Tpayua Toro.
5, TOrTé Olioray
Ly

ያ

i

SN

ኣገ»

[4

Tdvres Guo Kai Gvegeudrtray &XAIXOVS
ጋ
€y

5
GUT@

ve

es

1 E Gs add

avrois,

DEN
3
H
[
=
Vunzay avras
oiድህና ¢ypyopot
[kaiኣ &renAavilgnray nie atréy,]l kai eiroy
0y

oi kaTaBdyres €y Tats JJuépats "Idoe8 eis
Ti]v Kopvpiv Tog Bpuoyteiw Spovys, Kai
ekdaeray 79 pos Epuéiu, Kag6rt @uoray
kai GvegeludrTtray GAMIAovs €y ayr®s.

2 Bracketed as a doublet.

E Gs omit.

2 Gs omit through

homoioteleuton.

¢ omits.

45 Gs has oi xaralBdvres : that 15 HOéረéi
Other MSS. put numerals.
Gs has oi karalgdivres éy rais fiuépats "Idpe8 eis Tijy Kopvpily Toy Epkoveeiu Spovs Our

AS
text

ought to run Hወረ&i በመዋ0A; Pei ውስተ; £ማሆ: ሰበር: ACY
Thus it would
appear that RCN: is a corruption of "1épe8 and ው iA'E: £#, bcdo,as or HAE mgu,

14

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኖኻ፡

VI. 6—VIL.

ወጸውዕዎ፡' ሲ“ደብረ፡፡ ጸርሞን፡ ኣስመ፤ መሕዙ፡፡ ቦቱ፡፡ ወጸውገዘዙ፡ በበዶናቲሆሙ።
7. ወዝንቱ
ጸስማቲሆመሙመ፡ ሲ'መሳኣሕቲሆሙመ፡ ሠሚጸዛዝ፡፡ ዝንቱ ውኣቲቱ፡ መልጸኮሙ፡ “ጸራኪበራጃሌል፡፣
ኮከቢሔዴል፡’

ጠጣሚሌዴል፡’’ ራሚሌል፡”

ዳንጴል፡ ሌዜቁሔል፡፡

በጣርዜል፡፡

ጸናንጹል፡

ሰምሰፔዱጹል፡”

ተጸራዝያል፡ተ።

ኣጻሱ፣ ጸሙንቱ፡

"ዙሱ፡ ምስሴሆሙ፡።

ዘቁሌል፡።

"ሀበድ1፡

[ወ |ሣመጽ፡

ዓሠርት፡

ሎመ፡።

በራቁዩል፡”፡ ጸሳሌል፡*

ሰተርዜል፡”

ጡርዜጴል፡”

ጸርማሮስ።

የምያሌል፡።

ዚጸሆሙ።።

11.

(ኣሱ፤)። ወ“ባ0ዳኽ፤።

ጸንስተ፡” ወጋረዩ፡።

ዙሱ፡።

ሰለሰ፡ ርኣሱ፡ ጸሕት፤”

a6 BRInb x a corruption of ስች:
In the next place the Aé: is supported by 8
but omitted by a. In this passage, as FHallévi (Journ. Assia. 1867, pp. 3567) has
pointed out, there is a play on the name Jared if we retranslate into Hebrew sna ገገ»
ገ. We can hardly help assuming, therefore, that this part of the text is ultimately
derived from a Hebrew source, though on other grounds we are obliged to postulate
an Aramaic original of most of Vi-XXXvi., & omits next three words,
1 £ reads
ወጺጸው; (sic).
9 omits. We should expect AAC:
2 We have here again
a paronomasia SIN « « « Non. This play originated probably first in Hebrew like
thatin nda, 0:73:
Ocef/BI#oAand'Gs. a, agi)» a Omit.
5g Omiis:
g.

#Z reads ht: NዛH

»,5-ge በምያዛ፡

/።ሴምጸዛዝ፡

4ሲሚ"“.

።“ ስሚጸዛ፤

The

word is from NIVSW Or Nios}.
7'a-g. 50 G8 otros. g8 read H.
SE
Save
that mu read as one word and#2 divides into two after W, and the three MSS. omit
the final A.

g reads Rራብራሌ:

#/ Rራኪበራ

INA: save that / reads

I for Bg.

a ዙራኪበርሜሌል፡
g#። "ራሚሌል፡
ፀረሪሃክ።ዕx «8 "ራሟዜል፡
/ ጴራኪበራማሌስ፡
Here ራLጵR: probably corrupt for R&R:
Thus we have in Gs "ApaxeiX (cf. “Pax
no, 20 in Gs); and again in Gs in viii, 3 where it is speaking of "ApaxiiX we have 5 ge
Tpiros €iBagey Ta mkeia Tis YMs. TLhus ‘Apaxkl = DNDN where pግN= earth. This angel
is mentioned as unfallen in S28. Or. 11. 215-17. KuuBpd is corrupt.
2m, g reads
ኮበባጹል፡
!ሃ። ኮክብ. 5 ጸኪቤጹል፣ save that / reads h for W. The name is from

D322= «star of God’

0 mgt, Boa.

# reads ጥል!

eos Mg",

The

name = Shin ‘the perfection of God’ (Schwab, Vocapuiatre de FPanesiopoese
g’apr8s les MSS. HebreuX, p. 315Y.
ኳፉ ድ reads ራሌ:
» ራም. 08 Em.
This angel is referred to in Apoc. Baruch 1v. 3, where see my note.
NN

ac def BR Ina. treads RHA: 5x AWA

("tAx). 0 WE. w illegible. Since Gs

viii. 3 Writes 5 Be SyBoos eiSafey deporkorias this word comes from DN pnw. phe is rendered

by Sp in 2 Ki. xxii. 125 Ps. xviii, 11 (Beer).

em.

ፀሪሆይደos ስራቁቍያል፡

ፐከe word = DN,pግ3.

ዕረ9!/።.። "ቁያል፤ ኋ "ቁዜል፡

m, £ read RRA: 9 ራስል

g reads በራቅያል፡

/ በራል:
ያ, 8-8

/RሳሔA: The word
= RY (Schwab), but see other forms

in Appendix.
*#9,n. m reads ACመCNi / ACZCሮhN; « illegible. 8~e RCC:
e RCሞCN: Since Gs Vii. 3 writes with reference to this angel § 8s €yBéxaros papuapss
cBigagey . . . erao6ds ...

Kai €raouBéy

Aurnpa

the name

may

be derived from bግn

ENOX

VI. IVIL.

15
G8

(8

7. Kai Tara
Xbrey

ayr6v

Ta gydara:

T6y

ap-

Seuta(d,

oiros

Ty

Gpxeyv avr@y' Apagdk, Kulgpd, Saukal, AaveNA, Apeapds, SeualNs l[eeulእ, XexapuNA, “EcekulA, BarpNA,
3agulA, “ATA, Tau,
BapaxkuiA,
Pau,
Area,
Avayvgvd, Oey,

“PaxeuA, TovpuilA. 8. ogrot eirey apxat
abréy oi Béxa £.
VII, Kai? EXal3oy €avrois Yuyaikas"
EkaTos airy €EéXééayro €avrois YuyaiKas £#, kai ijjpéayro eirropetergat pos
4

\ኣ

Ld

ጋ

ፆ

NN

7. Kat Tara T6 Qvdluara Ty Gpxdvrey
avré6y" @ ZeiuiaCés, 6 ipxey airy,
‘ATapkoy®, Y "Apaxu, 8 XeBaBuiX, e

Opauuaul, S Pauuiእ, C Zauyyix,
Zaxul, 0g Baእkuiእ, Vv PACaXGIA, ta
Ppapuapos, ul3 AuapuI; ty “Ayaynudis,

8 Qavalas te SauuiiA, ts" apts,
tC Eyunlx, y TvplA, vg" ‘IovwuiA, K
ZapuiX.
VII. ¥ Ogrot kai oi Aotroi Tdyres 5
[ey 9 XtAtorr® €xarorr €BBounkorri®

€ret Tog KOuoyS] €XafBoy éavrois yvyaikas,

1 On these names see other Table in the Appendix.
= The manuscript reading
seems corrupt fOr dpxai ary Sy BexdBgey, a literal rendering of NIST nN. We have
an undoubted case of this in XiX, 2 ai yuyaikes airey Tay . ,, dyyeAay.
Radermacher
proposes dpxai ary oi (emi) Sexa, but this would mean ‘their chiefs over ten (angels)
In G we should have
€kagTos €avrg iay,.
is an intrusion,

(Dillmann).

oi Sexagdpxas air®y,
5 See note 5.
5 E = e£exeégaro
5 E = kai oi Aouroi révres er’ air@y Kai, where the final cai

5 Additions of Syncellus.

5 £ m/w. 9reads 0TርዴA፡ 9x 0Tጥራጸል፡ scgሪFs a 0ጥረAል: #።05 በጥረዓል

/በጠረጸል፡
vgZmgf delna. w illegible. a/hfoxay read ASIN; 9c SYA:
The word= N'33y., sn, gm (up) read Hg; 9 Hh; / Hቄሌ:i 8-5 HQ
ድ
So also céfF8 In0,a,8 save that they read lA". m reads ሰለምNEቤጵA: 9 ስምሰEስ’”.
/u ስምሰፔቴቤ~.

«x ሰምሳቹ.

ና ሰምሰዎ.

Since Gs viii, 3 describes the functions

of this angel as 5 8é gBSouos ¢Bigage Ta onueia ToD NAiov the name was from bib, i, e.

DNWE.
em. greads RCRA: / ትር". # ሰራት, acge/hso,s ሰር", ያ ሰት,
bx CY. ። ለርስት”. Schwab (p. 309) derives the word from Aram. ab
=‘ God is
on my side’
mg, 8-ny.,
fu, yread CRN: » ré. Word = Aram. 2X, =
‘ Rock of God. After this our text has lost a proper name.
= 9,8. Zu read FA
mt read $-PRAN; Word = oo. See Gen. xlvi, to (Schwab).
S29, B. m reads

ራዝ;

/ hራዝRAi

This word recurs in viii. 3 as

ስድ CA:
—in all cases corrupt

for ሰéRBN; which = RIno where no =‘ moon’
This angel (viii. 3) looked after the
moon.
=u. # reads 001; ዓwvርE: KH.
ሐበዴተሙ ዓሠርቱ: ሺ. 7 00ድት፡ IH".

B, # ሀበይተሙ፡ ሰ( + ኣሙንቱ ኋ)ነጀጀመላሳኣክት፣፥ / ሀበዴተት፡ ሰክልሌጹ፡ ምልኣት መባ".
= 5upplied from Gs.
5 B-u. gmiu, nm read በ0: 9 0:
7 9 reads LAF HN

greads fri

= Interpolated.

™ a. ade/88no,as read RINT; bc/x AYስቲ#;

bIxa

= 9 reads tN

»aatnya.

Dye:

Other MSS. add Rሐትi ጸሐ:

16

መጽሐፈ:

ወወጠፉ፡

ዴባጽ፡፡ ገኘቤሆገ; ወ“ተደመፉ፡፡

ሄኖ:

ምስሴሆን።

VIL. VIHL

ወመሀርዎን፡

ሥራያተ፡

ወ“ሥብዓታት።

ወመቲረ፡ ስርወ ወዕፀወ፡ ዘመርዎኝ።፡
2. ወኣማንቱሰ፡ ፀንሰ፡ ወወለዳ፡ “ረዴት ዓበ ዴተ፡
ወ፣ቁሞመሙመ፡ በበ; ፳፻;፣ በኣመት።
3. ኣሰ፡ በልዑ ዙሉ ጻማ፡ ሰብኣ ተኣስከ፡ተ" ስኣንዎመሙ፡

።ሰብኣ፡ ሴስዮተ።።
5. ወወጠፉ;"

4. [ወ]ተመይደጡ፡። ረዓዶት፣ ሳዕሴሆሙ፡ ወይበልዕዎሙ፡። ለሰብኳኣ።።

ዩጸብሰ፡ በጸዕዋፍ፡ ወኗበ፡፡ ጸራዊት፥ ወበዘዴትሐወሥ፡ ወበንሳት፣ ወሥጋሆመሙ፡

በበይናቲሆሙ ዴትባልዑ፡
ሰዓማሂቧያን፡።
ወወልኝ፡

ወደመ፡ ዴሰትዩ፡። |ጴምኔሃ፡|=

Vገጊ[. ወጸዛዝጴል፡ መሀሮሙ፡

ወ.ድፎርዐበ፡;

ወ።ጸውቃፉት፡

ልኣንኘድኝ፡

ወ“ጸርጸዮመ፡።”

ወሰርጕ፣ ወተቸሕሉ፡።

1 9 reads tAብi

6. ጸሜሃ፡። ምድር፡ ሰከየተሙ፡።

ለሰብኳ፤ ገቢሪረ፡ ጸስዶፍት፡። ወመጣብሣት፡”
ተዘጓኋም.ፎሣፌሆመሙተ።

ወጸሰንዮተ፡። ቁርንብ፡። ወኣኳብኔ

ወምግባርሙ፡”

“ኣምዙሱ፡

2 Possibly corrupt for VIlaoks or rather

ኣኳብን፡

ZY Iki
= Gss

taiver gat. 3m adds kL. ‘mf, ace/inxa. gu hpreadhብ0". 9 ሰብዓ". /5 ሰብጸ".
4ስ00". "£9/, uy. S50 Gs ras Bordvas. ma reads 00: #, /* 8~-ny read 0g; Here 09©;
is a rendering of Borévas as in Wisd. Xvi. 12, and must be translated « plants or « shrubs,
as in Jub. x. 12. We have this use of Vy in the Hebrew Book of Noah which treats
of the subject in our text. PRN »yy3 Nnግ5 Noon ግ\in = «the angel showed how to

heal with the plants (or shrubs) of the earth.”

ረ3£1i

7 ¢" ወ00£1Yi ©.

FTL

All other MSS. read

Corrupt for At; a rendering of the Greek art, Tots.

H = Sore (as in

2 Xx read Nari
# The

O

i? f=

may have
verse.

Corrupt for es 8.

Read Afi

x reads ©.

9, ak, m/w, g~a8n (x) read ሴስ" ሰ". ።(x) ሴስዮቶሙ፡ ሰ".
arisen in E through a misreading of es Bé as re

Yap= érpdrnray,

CG kat Karergioray.

reads Yo;
a and

7 m reads JAY

mF

Matt, xxvii. 145 Mark ii. 2; 1 Cor. xiii. 2).

preceding

s 9 reads Reoዋ}i

* m reads ሠAላሰi ምAaትi

which

All other MSS.

"Fm,

the rest of 8 read

seems

read ዶብኋዕዎመሙ፡

/nagcgeFhioxab.
+A:

preferable

In the

case

in Gs.

5 g omits.

7

#u, Inread D0.
of this verb

in the

to €rdyunray

and

"a9cvx.
the next

the

M55. are strangely divided. We require here either an imperf. indic. representing
the practice of the giants (= karergioras) or a subjunctive (= tagergieew) after nk;
Here the best MSS. are wrong, but right in the case of the next verb.
Oat

hb B read NYE

1 Bracketed as a doublet of RY;

= mn omits.

5 # reads

ሰክከዙዮተመ፡
AF. Other MSS. read A376.e3;
5 m reads ሰፍE;
Ei
Save that # reads ብሕት!
9, 5 read መጥባ
7 gw.
mt B read ወድC3;
0, bcd
BRON a. Other MSS. omit,
= c reads RCAF'I
= ra ker ard corrupt
for Ta éraXAa.
“pe.
Other MSS. read OPI;
save that # omits the
initial ©.

5.

5a

g reads CIA:

Th KayXBAépapoy.

8 omits.

5 9 reads YN:

uu, 8 ቁራንብY:i
5 = rayroioys,

i a,e.

fe read Aw}:

This together with the preceding word =

NTT

ENOX

NTT

1T
Gs

Ie,

kai ilpgavro ktaivergat ¢€y ayrais [gas
Tog KaTakxvzuog].
2. kal Erekoy
[aprots Yen Tpia’ ToSroy] 7 yiyayras

atr6s kai luaiyéergau 1 €y vrais" Kat
€BiBagay airas papluakeias Kat éeTaotBas
kai Bicorouias, Kat Tas Bordyas e9g1[ay
ላ
እeray avrats.
2, Ais B% €y yarpt
NS,

ኣ

ኣ

ላ

ር

ያ

\

N

XafBograv €réxkoray

)

\ኣ

[A

Yiyavras

ግ

#

ej

#

[ei

ን

ን

#

ኣ

Ld

ላ

ኣ

Ld

5

Ls

Kara

[A

ኣ

‘EBigagey

ACaNX axaipas

Toys

ef

Tገlyv eyaAéetoTTa
Ax

[d

H

N

)

ኣ

ን

#

auTey.

J]

ጦ

c

ን

[ey

kat\ኣ
[Pe

cpapuaxeias kal éeraoBdas.

25

ኣ

ሞ

VIII.

(|IIpgros] "ACaiX [8 gékaros

TO» GDXGvrey | €BiSage Toveiy axaipas
N
ፆ
ላ
=
kat gapakas kau TEVTay 1 GKeDos ToNéutkdy,

@vODa Toys
2

ሓ

€(gagay |€ovrobs ai] Ts yuyatkas favr@y

TOV Gyouey.

VIII.

ን

ያ

[A

1d

a)

ኃ5/

Tots Terévois kai ois (9)mpiots Kat
€prerois kai Tois (iJXgUery, Kat &XAYoy Ts (crJdpkas Karérgtety, kai TO alka
(¢)Tiyoy.
6. Tgré 3] Y] €yérvxey kar
ኣ

ጋ

ኣክ

€

BE 5 ovk €Bvvilgnray atrots oi vgpeoot
4. oi ytyavres €rOAIray t
€rXopyeiy,
€ér ayroys, Kat Karergioray Toys GygpeTous.
3. kai Jogayro duapréiyvety €y
ኃ[

ፆ

eydxovs, [oi B¢ Tiyavres Teréxkverayvt
NapnAeiu, kai Tois Napnaeiu Teyevvyፀncavt EXtoyB.
kai Tray ayéaygueyot

eydxovs

€k IXY TpUFX Ay, 3. oiriyes KaTégoray Toys KOTovs T&y Gvgpé nay. ws
[ey

hd

[4

Toteiy kai GnAa kat

/
[ey
ፆ
]
kat) T6iN uéTakNa
Tis
yi[es |[katNENTO Xpvtoy
arniBas kat gapakas [Budyuara éyyeT&S épydravrat kai [Tovey air]
Ay], kai UréBetéey airois Ta LéTaAXa ? kdruta [Tais Yvyatéi, Kai TOy Gpyupoy
nN
Kat Ty €pyariay airy, kai \reAta kat €Bevge Be abrois]
kai T9 TrriABeyfs kat)
ኦ)

#

ኣ

ፆ

[A

\

ኣ

\N

ግ

is

m

ን

ፆ

Rs

\

H

ላ

KOHovs Kai ril3ets 5Skai T9 KaxAUBXe-

T9 KakATtCEty kai Toys éKkXékToys XLgoys

i E=uiyvvzgat, See note 2 on D. 16. 5 M5. reads ey. 5 E= re. # F=erparnay,
of which €rdyumray seems a corruption.
5 Gs has riእBeew which 15
2 MS. ueyaእa.
corrupt. See note 8 below. The Aram. was prob. NግIY . Ct. 2 Rings ix. 3o; Jer. 1v. 30:
Heb. Ts. 7 These clauses, though omitted by E and Gs, go back to the original.

That three classes of giants were mentioned in this chapter is presupposed by IXXXv.
Moreover, Fugsfees vii, 21-22 is based on this passage: ' The
i [XxX 2:
Watchers took unto themselves wives . . . and they beasat sons the NAaphidim ...
and they devoured one another, and the Giants slew the Niphil and the Naphil

slew the Elj6 and the Ell mankind.”
In ver. 24 of the same chapter, /uisiees
quotes the greater part of viii, 5 of E and Gs. Hence, whereas Gs omits vii. 3-0
and FE and Gs omit portions of vii. 2 which Gs preserves, both texts are here

defective.

The three classes of giants go back to Gen. vi. 4.

the Napa
eiu = Dooney, and the "EXtoy8 the Din "WR.

The Tiyasres = "Ia,

eréxyveoray and Tois N é€yevyilnray

may be corrupt. We should expect according tO Ju. vii. 22 fxretyay and oi N gxreevay.
“ Corrupt: rruaiceew (Diels),
D

18

መጽሐፈ:

ኻቡረ፡።

|ወሕፉዩ፡|፡

*ርስዓን፡

|ዓቢይ

3. ጸሚዚራስ፡።”
ስብዐታተ፡።

ህዛኛኝ፡

ወዙሉ፡

ጥምዓታት፡።

ሣብር።

ወ|°"ብዙሣ፡›

ወዘመዉ፡"

ወትሳሐቱ፡"

መሀረ"

መሳሰብዕ፤፡""

ወ“በራቃያል፡።

ረዓፃይያ፤፡።

|(ወችውሳባጠ፡፣

ወመታርሄ
ከዋኳብት፡

NITE TNE
ዓሰም|።’

2. ወከኮኔ፣

ሹሎ፡።

ፍናዊሆሙ።፡

ወ።ማስኒ;።

ሥርዋት፤።

ወ"ጸርማሮስ፡”

ወኮከብጴዴል፡” ትጻምርታት፥

ፈቲሐ

ወ“ጠሚሌል፡።

መሀረ፡። ርኣዩ፡። ከክብ፡ ወ“ጸስ.ድርዜል፡” መሀረ፤ ፉፀት፣፥ ወርሣ።”"
4. ወበሕኾሰት፡” ሰብጻኣ፡
ፀርሑ፡ ወበጽሐ፣ ቃሎሙ ሰማዩየ።
1x. ወ።ጸ"ሃ፣፡ ሕወፉ፡ ሚካሌል፡ “ወጽሉርሌል፡ ወፉፉሌል

FBC
rcad

BIOXD. PI,

ሣrይi

Since

aIRna read NC:

"Fw

9, Gss omit, the word

or an interpolation.

is either

is meadls POND

beef BIn0X BS. mr, agka
a dittographic

+2 reads Sei

we have (as Dillmann observed) a corrupt transliteration of #éraእXa.
here a dittography.

See note 30, p. +6, and 5, D. 17.

Yis 15 found in G*.

2 reads ተወለ;

gf CስጸH

58 Cስዓት፣

miu, 8

rendering

? ፲n ተውላጠ
Hence we have

[Lhe complete phrase 7 uér. Tis

5 2 reads Dh;

#7 read ዓቢ; ©.

7 mu.

# reads ረሲዓY;

Since Gss omit 1 have

bracketed the word as an intrusion.
® miu, Bg. dq omits together with preceding ©.
#9 read ብዙ: but 9 trans. after next word.
mrmru. 9 reads DHP; 1:8 Hp:
n#. mhB read hh’;
። ThE:
9 omits. af add Ha
AR
m:agekiny,a read Ni
Dc/hoxy MNS:
5 eu and apparently 9. Other

MSS. read td

14 e reads EPቶ;

RH.

as/ Aዛራni

add ሹ፡

7,8.

52.

m reads RH . 9 RH.

/s

Scde/hox,a,8 RBH".

» RBHራOi

reads ye:

reads መስብዒያy

መስብ0፤;

15 8. a reads መራ;

m9

Fr

na
g,n, 9, Bn omit.
0 a read ጸጽርምርስ፡ ረያ ጸርማኖስ፡
SID
IB
read ፈትሕi
= 7u, acge/5. # reads ስብሓታት » ስብዓት
7/880 x ስብዓታ1፡
ዕ በብ9".
5 ድ.
ras በራቅሌል፣ 9 በራቁያን፡ ሃ። በራቅየል፡ «#8 በርቅዓል፡ ‘5 ።ዕ x
በረቅዓል፡ ሃሪያ በረቁንል፡ / በረቃዓል፡ » በረቅጸል፡
4 PDabcdehpfoxab. Fm read
ራA
Iu FIn eA
9 omits next six words.
= a8 ead ጽኪቤሌል፣፡
= 2.
# (Over an erasure) m # read Tt:
TR. BcgeFhiInox as Tr". This word
is corrupt. Gs has Zag(iN, corrupt (7) for Zax. We should perhaps read HRA;
5ee note 8 below.
“iF omits next four words through hmt.,
Tf, ef#nob. ma,

abcgfgxa read Ai /ረAይy;
= ን.
illegible. §~c read ANራድሌAi
c RስራEጹi
form.

9 reads ጳስ.ፎሌል፣፡
/ ኣስዳርሌል፤ ። is
All corrupt for ሰéwA: or some such

See no, 21 in list of names in Appendix.

ትሣዮሉ፡

5

wm omits,

9 reads AAW;

ek In (rH) omit.

: Since G8 has T5 taእእeritey the Aram. may have been simply bin.
Ta berTaእእa Tis Ys—a doublet.
but not in G#.

See note 30, p. 16.

2 FE= eraougoys ai Btorduouve.

° E adds

Observe that iis Yiis is found in Os
Found also in Dan. v.12 [Ep Ni

where Theod. translates it Ayey rvvBérkovs.
° See note 13, Dp. 14.. ° F=dorpoእdyovs.
7 Corrupt for XexalguN. See note 9, D. 14.
5 Corrupt for Zax Or "Eéexalእ. See
note 12, p.i14: also next note.
5 This word (which is translated in E£) is corrupt

VIE

ENOX

IN

19

Ie

(as

bapoy 1 kat rayroiovs Xigovs €xXexroys
kai Ta Bapixd.
2. kai €yéyero
QaréfBete ToAAI, kai endpvevray kai
GréerAamgnray
Kai ijpayirgnray
€y
Tats Tats 68ois ayréy.
8. Seuatgs
ciigagey era(ov)Bis kai BCorouias 3° AD
kapes ZéraoB@y Auriiptoy #° (Bajpaxy)Xs
GrTpoXxoyias S' XXX 7 Ti uetortkd"
=a6(IX 5 Grreporkoriay 5° Sepul(A) 10
FeNIvayayias 1,

kat Ta Bapukd’ [kai ¢roinray €avrots ot
ላ
[ey
መ
viol TO» Gy0pOTay kai Tais gvyaTparty
\

[ey

avr ay, kai TapéBnray

Toys &yiovsl,
ቸዕእእኝ |$ኛ፤ ና

»ኝs,] «at ጓወa

98oys apréy.
€

\N

ን

kai €TAdivmray

2. kai €yéyero QréBeta

N

Ts

8. |€rt Be kat 6 Tporapxos

[ey

LS

N

ie

[4

ar 6] 5SeutaCas ¢B(Bagey T eiyat 6pyas 1
Kare Tog yods, kai Bicas Borayy |]
Is]. 18 B¢ évBéxaros] papkapss egigaée
[

ፆ
(Papluaketass

H
#
eraot8as,

eraotB@y Avriipta’

/
optas,

Kati]

6 gyaros |eBiBafeyl

Qrrporkoriay' 6 Bt rérapros |¢BiBagey]
QrTpoAoyiay" 6 B¢ 6y8oos éB(gagey éepoPPR
#
ጋ5/
rkoTiaw"
16[RyBE rpiros
€BiBage
TaኣN nueia=

T]]s Ys" 6 Be €BBSoluos éBiBage Ta neta
Tog JAiov]' 6 BE eixorros sBiBage Ta
neta Tis exis.
|Téyres obrot 0€ayro GyakakyTTety T& vr ipa Tats Yvvavéiy avr Sy Kat Tois TEKyots bry. erg
B¢ Taira] [LVII.4—5] iipéayro oi ytyavres
ጦ

[ey

ፆ

KaTéggtety

5

Ovupayoys avei3n],
ኣ

ግ

Tore rap(a)kyayes
Mixx
Kat
Ov(PYX
Kai “Papaiix
for deporkoriay as in Gs,
the clouds.
EE
eraot8ds (Raderm.).

ኣ

[i

]

ሓ

5

#

18%

|Tas Fapkas |Ty GyODery
G*s (G. Syncellus 1.42 59d.)
4. Tdre1 eBdnray oi
4. kai ijbfayro oi dy
LA
ጋ
ኣ
hy
ኣ
gparov eAarrogcgat |¢eri GvgpaTot eis TOy oupayoy

Tis Yi.
oi Be Aovro]
€Bonray eis Ty ovpayoy
|rep Tis Kakéeas avry,

[4

IX.

[

Ld

G1

4. T6y oy 1 Gygpanoy
GTONAUuéyvay 3 Bol) eis
ን

Hn

Aéyovres eirevexgilvat T9
iMugrvyoy @vrSy €v6Ttoy
Kvpiovl,
TX. Kai [dxoyrayres
oi Térrapeés ueydXov &pxtyyexou],
MuxayX
Kai
OvpuIX Kai “PapailX kat

[Xéyovres Eiraydyeré Tiy
Kpizty Ju@y Thos Toy
ey

NAN

,

#

Utz Toy, Kat Tily @TeoAetay

Nu6y» evartov

Tis BSdéns

Ti]s ዚeyakns, €voTtoy Tog
KUp(oy TOy Kvpioy TVTay
ዳ

H

ጥገ] keyaaeyvn],

)

IX. Kai |akovrayres
oi Térrapes eyሪXot apXdyyexoul,
Mixa
Kat
3

\

OY0X

kai “PapayX

Kat

Thus Eéexui (from pny « cloud’) teaches the knowledge of
5 Corrupt for
i MS. reanvova’yeas.
5 This sentence summarizes Vii, 4, 8 of G#. ‘The order of

TBlei sa DE,

narration in Gs is better than in Gs.

i

MS.

TOV

VOUy,

50

መጽሐፈ:

ወገብርዜል፡።

ወሉ

ኣምሰማይደ፣።

ዓመባ፡።

ወርሓጳዩ፤

ብዙሕ።

በኗበ፡

ምፎር።

ዘይትገበር፡

ዛህዛኛኻ፡
ደመ፡

IX, 14.
ዘይትክንው፡“

2. ወድቤቡ፥

በዷበ።

ምድር፡፡

በበይናቲሆሙ

ቃሲ፡

ጽራጋቲሆሙ፡፡ ዕራቃ፡'" ጸርሐሕት፣ ምድር። ኣስከ" ጸንቅጸ፡። ሰማዴ፣
3. |ወዴጻዜኒ፡ ሰኸመ፡”
ሰቐዲሰ፤። ሰማይዶ |" ዶሰኻዩ፡ ነፍሰት፡'፡ ሰብኳ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ይብሱ፡ ጸብጽ፡ ሰኔ ፍትሕ፡ *ኝበ፡ ልፁል፡"
4. ወዴቤቡ፡ ሲ"አንዚጸሙ፡ ተ ሰነገመት፡”" ጳስመ፤ተ። ኣግዚጾመ“ ሰጸጋጻዝት፡።” ወጸምላኮመሙ፡
ሰጸማልኳሻገ፣

ዓሲም;

ወንጌፇመ፡

ሰነገመጓ፣

ወ።ሣመንበረ፡

ስብሕቲክ፡።

ወ።ስምክ፡ ቅዱዷስ፡። ወስቡሣ፡። “ውስተ፣

ሰ

ውስት፡።

ዓሰም”

ዙሲ፡ “ ቸውልዶ፡

ወቡፉሕ፡”"

1 [Lhe text is based mainly on #Zm ያ supplementing each other.

[(ወስቡሕ፡|”

# reads HCA:

ወገብርዜል፡
ፉፉዬል፡ ወሱርሌዱል፡ ወገብ". ያ ወገብ" ወሱርያል፡
ሃ። ወጽዙርሌስል፡ ወገብ".
8 ወገብ" ወቡር.ያን (a።8። “ያል ወጽርያን፣ (a8። “ል፡). ሓለቨሮ፣ ወገብ" ዕ።ኋ ad ፉፉሌጵል፡
(in 6 in another hand).
= 9 trans. before Ln:
2,8. 9 omits. my, B~n read
ብዘጋ;
ትሑት

‘Fn FDSInox,a. Other MSS. read “NOs
° e reads £05;
‘2m add
/። ታሕተ G, 8 rightly omit,
፣ BL mgs read Wi
* #u trans. after

ዘይት".
? ድ፣ሩaባs ጽራዓፒሆመሙ፡
፡ ጽራኖመሙ፡፥
ሠ aባd ቃለ፣፡ ጽራኖሙ፡
» Gags
omit, but see Jxvii, 2; Ixxxiv. 5. CF Isa. xxiv. 1. nu 7 prefixes gD. 1 m reads RSA:
5 mw omits.
#a. 3 reads BA".
5 Interpolated in E., See note 2 below.
5 21m, B-gy. gu, sg read HEN;
7 9 reads AJብጽi
5 AIብA;
Sa trans.

before AAR

against 8, G.

» 0/1 omit.

0 a. adgehinpa read AY;

BOFBOX»B Yi
The text is corrupt.
There is no point in this designation
here, as there is in chap. lxiii, We should read AAT; here (= G1).
See
note 5 below.
1 Emend into AY: as in G.
as omit.
5 9 reads
AyIYi
20 omit next two words.
S g’omits.’
“abyx.
All other MSS: read

ስብሐሕሂቲሆሁ፡
six words.

=” x reads ውAቱ: A
5 x reads YውAE: HAA; and omits next
7 m reads hy: ቅዱሰ}; 5 omits #ዲN: together wih @ following.

5 dy omit next five words through hmt.

5 a,

B~en read ውስትi tሱ፡ ትል

ዓሰም
። ሰትውልደ፤ ዓ. ። ሰንሰም፡
0 Should be restored before ht; with Gs.
መ reads ወፉክ፤
6% read AY ቡrፉH:
3 An intrusion.
1 Gg omits

through

2 E adds kai yy

pos

hmt.

kai meray

GréBetay yevouéymy eri fie Ys against FE Cy

Sugs rove dyiovs ro

obpavot.

The

Words

uéXpt

Sy

TuASy

T. ovp. must be taken with €yrvyxdyvovzey as in ix. 10.
3 FE adds Tay Barta.
G*1 has T@y aieyeoy, See note 5 below.
+ Corrupt. E Gg = r®y Barthéey Or
Bartxevdvreoy. Jf this corruption is not native to Gs then we must assume a corruption
in

the Aramaic,

the converse

corrupt () for si52y.

of that

in note

Hence « Lord of the ages“

5.

5 E = ray

Baréእéey = K5pi»

5 Gs has Gygperey, 1.€. avmreoy,

ENOX

IX. 1-4.
Os

[ey

kai TaBpul(X),
Tog

[ey

ovoavog
ን

CS)

otro

¢x

TaBpuilX Tapéxvyay |€rt
N

ክህ]

ጋ

[A

afua ToAY €KXUvvduey
(0)

To0 obpayog"

Be

ert Til YIIs * 2. Kat €tTay

evo

Tp6(s)

evov

ሞ

N

n

N

ኦ

a

Ys

[d

እ

GAAኻAovs

[

TN» YM» | €k

€gedra(y)ro
--

py

G5

ጦ

ሞ

ኔ)

[4

i] [

XD TUXG(») Tog obpavog

[

ፆ

ኮ]

eri Tils Yils (kai

I

Taay aéBéetay

Ns

€KKEXV=

ኣN

tay | yévouéymy

መሓ

]

kai geard-

alka TONY

Bogyral(yv)ert Tis Ys" keላ

(i

[Tay @ytoy

] [

A)

|kat @y0-

[4

SE)

t)

ላ

[ey

] f

[ey

H

be

ን

@y-

Beiay | Ytvouevmy em ay-

TOV GyODOTOy Aeydvray
Eirayéyere Ty Kpirty

2. |eirexgdyresl
einoy Tpos &AMIIAovs |Bru
3. Ta Tyeiuara Kail ai

Tis, 2. [eireagdvres] eiToy ps AAAXovs [rt

Juéy pos Toy SyrvrT(oy).
# 9
4. Katኣኣsina) T9in kvpte
3% ef kiptos Toy Kvpiay
[ey
kai 6 eos T6y geQy
Kat\

TO»
GvpOTy
Wvxat
[reydCovrty ] €yTuyXdUy
eዞ
voyra@ Kat) Aéyoyra
Ort
Eirayayere Ty Kpizty

Bartxeys TrSy aigveyt*"
6 godyvos ris Bdéns roy
eis Tdras Tas yeves Tog
ai@vos, kai TO Gyoud oy

Joy

መ

መ

)

[ey

3, €TUYXGyovZty at WVXat
HH]

[4

79 Gytoy
ን

ኣ

€

kai uéya
3

[

Kat
ላ

evAOYNTOy €is Tayras Toys

ai@vas.

ኣ

ላ

€n

TaBpalX Tapéxvyay |eri
[ey
መሓ
Fo
Tv% Yilv]
¢xጋ [[T@y
Gyioy]
To0 oppayog" kai geardeyot ailua ToXy ékkexyévoy ent Tils Yiis (kai
a
3
[a
T@ray
Gyoutay'
|kai Gré-

iN

mm

€

pos

Fa

N

=

Tov
ኦ1

i

tUytToy,
ey

[kai Ty GToAetay Nugy
évoTtov Tis Béns Tis
Leyakeryyns) €y6Ttoy TO%

Kupioy TO» Kupioy TayTay
in

H

T]] beyaxeoryyn].

eiroy T9 kvpie

4. Kat
in
TOV

ጋ
Gly=

3. Ta Tyeiuara Kai]\ ai
Wvxat
TO»
GyOpTey
3
(#
7
€vTUYXGyovrt
|[FTeyacoyTa
ኣ

kai] Aéyovra Eiraydyere
Tv Benrwv Nuéy pos
TO Uyrvrroy.
4. Kat
[|TporeXgdvres oi Tረኦ)

apes

[4

abpXayyéAotl

ገ]

ጥ

étroy

T@ Kupie SU ei ge0s Tay
geSy kai kiptos TOy Ky
VN

ይ

btoyv

Kat

ፆ

\

ጫጭ

\

Ley

Baixevs

ላ

Tay

\ኣ

Bartaevgvreoy

[ey

|kai

ges

vey15 3% ei 6 ges Ty

TO»

0e@y kai Kiptos Ty Kypioy
kai 6 Bartxeys TSy BartMevgvrey |kat ge9s T6y

gpdvos Tis Bgéns oy eis
aieveoy, kai T9 Gvoud roy

aidvoy |, kai 6 gpdyos

el
&ytOy

Tis Bdéns roy eis Taras

eis Tdyras Toys ai@yas.

[ey

TS

4

})

yeveas

ly

ላ

\

ን

4

Qy00eTeyl,
ን

Tdras

Tés
fi

Kai

[4

ላ
kat

MN

yeyeds

6

14

T6y

ን
#
€UAoyNueyoy

T&y aigywy,

kai TO Gyvoud oy tytoy
kat €vXOYuévoy éis Tay
Tas Toys aiSvas 5.
ላ

LN

d
[4

el

ን

ፐ

[A

kai eya.
YE
a
Same confusion HENRI 25
corrupt for aioveoy.
Tdre 6 YNVerros €xéAevre Trois dyiots dpXayyeNots, Kai €Onmkay
5 Here G1 adds ai re és.
Tots €fdpxXovs atr@y kai £Baእoy aibrobs eis ily fifBvooy, fas Tils «piesa Kai Tia €E1)s. Here
Ld

Syncellus summarizes X. 4, 12.

See note 12, D. 19:

ly

3

ላ

»

22

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

IX, 59.

5. ጸንት። ገበርከ፣ ዙሉ፡ ወ“ስልጣ ዙሱ፡፡ ምስሌከ ወ።“ዙሰ፡ ካሠውት'፡፡ ቁቅ.ፎቓከ፡፡ ወግሁ.ፎ፡
።መጸንት፡ ትሬጵ፡ ዙሉ’ ወጸልቦ፡ ዘዴትክሀል፡፡ ይትጋባኣ፡ ጳምኔክ።
6. ርጺክ፡;። ዘገብረ
ጾዛዝዜኤል፡፡’

ዘ'"መሀረ፡

ሉ።

ዓመዛ;።

በዴኗበ፡

ም.ፎር፡

ወጸፇሀደ፡"

ሣቡዳት፡

ዓሲም፤

ተኣለ

ዴዶትገበሩ፡፥ በሰማያት፣ ጸመሪረ፤ ሰብጸ።"
7. (ወዘነስም.ያዛ፡" ዘጸንት፡" ወሀብኮ" ስልጠሃ
ይዙንን፡ ኣሲ; ምስሴሌሆዙ፥ ዳጎቡረ።
5. ወሖፉ፡። ግበ፤፡ ጸዋልደ፤ ሰብኳ፡ “በጁበ; ምራድር፡።
ወሰከበ፡።”

“ምስሴሆን፤፡

ኃጢጸት።”

ምስሰ፡

9. ወጸንስትበ፡"

1 B x omit,
5 Erased in

ጻልኩ፥
ወሰዳ፤

ጸንስት፡=”
ረዓፃዶች፡።

ወረሰ”

2 0 reads መልጣንክ፡ ሹሉ
5 g omits. a reads HAA;

read ይሻግበል፡

Sahn

All other M55. read Hhapi
= 5.

13 m trans. before ye;

First of all we

see

read CA;

from

Gss that A

YIN;

£ትYIበራ)

should

ought to.

Hence we must read either IA;

be trans. after ሰማት;

ሹጡ።
ደመ፤።

and

“ 9 prefixes 0.
gu, abcgek!
1 9 reads AHA;

» CA

n trans. after apd;

= ss omits.

x adds fe:

SSO

ag read RAJU

DF.

“ሎን፤

“ዙሹላሳ፡ ምድር

ED
trans:
‘mb Fnoxab.

nm a= 85 Or gra.

# Buy

ወጸኘሀዲጁ፡”

በዘ፡። መልጸት።

(2, 5.

Other MSS. read AA

that £YI = ererngeiovw or rather

or preferably

YT:

ምI2AC;

is

a not unusual rendering Of srerijgevka.
Cf. Lev. xviii. 3 (twice); Deut. xxviii. 20;
Jer. iY. 185 Vii. 3, &c. srermgevey may mean ‘to practise, or rarely as in Herod.
iv. iio; 3 Macc. ii. 14 ‘to attempt, ‘try.
TL take this to be its most probable
meaning here. Next comes @ia omitsJiapéi (= €yveopure) which is a corruption of
g which reads RAmeéi = ewe.
Finally NAA: (9: so Gs) alone is right. om
wrongly read NR; / ሰሰብኣኳ፣ “5 ስብዕ7ት፣
፲hus ጀ = (76) €y T@ otpav® & ererngevouCy €yve (ivgpeorou and we see that E faithfully reproduced the impossible text of Gs.

For further critical restoration of the text see note 4, Dp. 23.

as follows (H)በሰማትY; Ai ትበ

case may the evils which precede be attributed to NበoያHi

agency of AHH:

possibly
In no

Gs supports ©.

They are all due to the

SZmt 8. gw read Uh;

7 9 reads RYY:

See x. 7,8.

FE should be restored

ሰብAs or instead of RAE

5 1 have supplied OH.

(see note 4, Dp. 23)

ወደትጋጐኮሲ፡

RAC:

" gy read in the singular.
ግ 9. ቋመ/) read በዷበ፡ ሰብኳ፡ (+ በጁበ፡
5 m omits.
#,e(5)x omit. Be read
EC: m originally) where (NV may be corrupt for ብስ;
Aግቡei which 7 adds in marge.

=e

abr@y herd Ty bmAeuey = Nb)

by ny ;

for AAW is only a rendering of the Greek article. Here E may be right, reproGs omits the difficult ker Tey 8., and Gs trans.
ducing as it does the Aramaic idiom.
it after Kai and connects it with éuudvgnzay.

vi. 1.

But Gs seems right: cf. x. 11; xii. 4; Xv. 35

For PhA; which 9 omits, BI read A, and for ኸለ
5 So also G&.,

< reads Aሪi

On text of Gs see note 22.

and next two words
For ett;

dg reads

“ሰ; and y "A;
2 tL Z9read ANYE tN: mE: HN # omits. 8 reads 3;
5 a,cdy,a. aephk/(5)5 read RINYL; bnx
5 a. Breads SN:
ኣሎን
IY
ወጸንስት፣ /» ጸንስት፤
7 my, abcdeFhhox,a. gu, In read ¢0".
read 0H;

ዘሉ፡ ምድያ

2 AH:

።, 5 0H;

5 መዩርቸሕ

5 7 reads

i

Fcads Pn:

AA:

Ff B-Brmgu

read

ENOX

IX. 8-9.

ኢጋCB

Gs (Syncellus 1. 43)

Gs

5. 3% Y6p ¢ToiNras Ta Tavras

5. 30 Yap «i 6 otras

kal

Tray 1 Tv €Eovriay €Xay, Kal Tavra
evoTudyv ov bavepa kai GkdXvrTa,

TayTG

kat

Kat TEhTG OD@S,

[

i

Nነ

7)

TayT@

ላ

Fy

#

#

Ops

\

RAS

Ld

Vi

ኣ

...6,

/

Kab

ግ

ላ

ይ

ACaNA, bs 5 eBiBagey Taras Tas aBtkias
éri Tis Yiis Kat €BArey TQ vTilpta
To0 aigyos Ta ¢» TO ovpav® &
Bevovrwy T tyra» f ygperot . 7. kai
ኮ

ማላ

[A

[a

[es

i)

\

NBN

=

N

ጋ

NX

ያ

4

Ld

LA

SeutaCas, @ Ty €EEoviay €Qokas GipXety

T6v ty atr® Gila Ovrey,
8. Kat
eropeygnray pos Tas gvyaTépas Ty
ey

ley

ላ

Qy00eTey Tis ils Kat vvekotugnray
mm

EE

ላB

avrats Kat?

[om

\

ያ

Jin

NO

. .. €utavgnray, Kat €01IA®-

ay avTais Tdgas Tas Guaprias.,

0, kat

ai yvyvaikes €yévmray TrGyas, ip @yS
[ny

1 E Gs = rdvrey,

Im

ን

T

[4

TET

[A

0% €Toinréy

TS

\

H)

[4

N

[4

=

Fs

Ta Tdyra

#

Ld

eEovciay

€XOH)

N

€VOTLOV
[A

3

ፕገ]።

AS

FOU (payepa kat

፫

kat

ኣ

[A

GKAVTTE

Kat OVKk €ZTLy 0 Kpul3iivai
)

).

Ls

i)

Cee

ፆ

é Bivarat.
6. Gp6ssS1 Gra éroinzey
ላ
/
F
ACN |kat gra eiveykey], Gra ¢8iBaዒ0
#
lf
ES
#
] SIN
fe
mn
€ey, &Bukias [kai uaprias] eri Tis Ys
[kal Tdvra BOXoy éri Tis énp8s. éBiSaée

y6p] Xr6 uvTiipta kai Qrexdxvye TO
aiQyt 5 TQ €v ovpavd.
eriTngeyovut
NS

ዓዓ

\ኣ

9

[4

ኣ

2]

\

Ly)

N

መ

=

ን

#

Be [ra erurngeduara atrog,]l eigéya,
TG vrTilpte, | ot viot TOy Gy0pe Tey.
7. £r@ Seutacé 17 Tily €Eovriay ¢Bokas
[

N

#

] 10

€

Cy

[Le

ግ

ያ

[ey
ኣ
Dae
Le
ኣ
texXety eens TOY
FUy @UT® Gua OVTy. 8B, Kat
€ropeignray bos Tis gvyarépas Ty
mn
Pn
ላ
Qygpenay Tis Yils kat vyekotugnray
=
\
ker avray Kat 1 €y Tas OnXeiats1 gutdyላ
#
ሓ
gnray, kat ¢BIAaray abrais das 6s
ኣ
Gkaprias, |kai €BiBagay airs uignrpa
Toveiy]. _ 9. kai (ygy (Boy! ai gvyarépes
ግ

#

\

NN

[4

መኣ

= (Os omits through hmt. tai obk €orrey 0 Kpugijvai re gvyarat.

EF presupposes (see note 15, p. 22)
i! Seéelnotesiroipi22N
Spés against E Os.
exactly this impossible text save that it reads fyye Or €yyeptrey fOr fyvoay,
If we
insert ai before ¢y. with Swete and Radermacher we arrive at a wholly unsatisfacHence as Os reads eigévat it may be best here to read yvSvat and regard
tory sense.
the corruption as native to Gs.
Thus we arrive at an excellent sense « which
On the other hand a different meaning of errgetety
men were trying to know.
See note 10.
[fi we are bound to accept this
‘to practise is presupposed by =.
meaning, then some corruption seems to lie behind £yyeray = 1yግ» (or hyo) and eigévae
= ገ.
[hese may be corruptions of an original INI = kai driAAvvrat.
This
ives a good sense: « which men are practising and so are perishing,' i.e. by the
practice of which men are being destroyed: and thus the text is brought into line
with X. 7 iva ui dnሪAoyrat rdyres oi yioi T&y dvgporay €y TO urrnpie, «A. and X. 8
Npnue6n . .3] Yi] . . €y Tois gpyots Tis SgarkaXias "ACA.
5 Add é€y rais OnAeiats with FE, Gs.
5 G*= eat.
See note 1 above.
5 See note 2 above.
? E Gg = kai eglAeoyey Ta

kvorilpta Tog aiSvos.
mn Here Gs means ‘they practise (Azazel5) practices in order to
know the mysteries” This is possible, but unlikely.
Corrupt. E Gs = cai Zeutaéss.
= Corrupt for fipxew (Raderm.}.

24

መጽጠፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

IX, OX. 4.

ወ'ዓመባ።
10. ወይደኣሠዜኔ፡ ፍሁ።፡ ይጸርኙ፣ ነፍሰ። ኣሰ፡ ሞቱ፡ ወዴሰክዩ፡ ኣስከ፡፡ ጸንቁጸ፡
ሰማይ፤፣ ወዓርገ፤ ገዓሮመ፡፥ ወጺደክል፡፡ ወጺጸ፡ ጻምቅድመ፡ ገጺ ዓመዛባ፡ ዘዴይትገበር፡
በዲበ; ምድር
11. ወጸንት፡ ፓጸምር፡፡ ሸሎ ዘኣንበሰ፡ ይኩንገ፤
ዘንተ: ተወዘዚጸሆሙ፡ተ። ወ“ጸልቦ፡ ዘ“ጊኘኘገኘረ ምንነ" መፍትው

ወጸገንት፡"" ፓጸምር፡
ንረስዮመሙ፡ በቢጻን1፡

ዝንቱ።
“X. ጸሜሃ፡” ልዑዮል፡ (ድቤ፤)” ዓቢድ፡። ወቅዲዱስ፡ ተናገረ፡ ወፈነወ፡። ጸሰርዩ፣ ልእዬር፡”
Jበ; ወሊኢደ፤ ሳኳ ወ“ዴቤሎ፤።
5. (ሖር፡ ሰኖሣ፣ ወ)” በሎ፡ በስመ፡። ዚጸዩ፤ ሣበኳ፡ ርኣሰከ፡
ወጸፃህ.ፎ፡ ሎቲ፡ ፍጻ’ኝ;። ዘደመጽኳ፡ ጻስመ፡ ይትጋኮል፡።” ምድር፡ ዙሴ፡” ወማሂ፡ ጸዴሣ፡
ይደመጽኣ፡። ሀስ ደበ፡ ዙሱ፡። ም.ድር፡ ወየኝኮል፡። ዘሀሉ፡፡ ውስቴታ።
3. ወይጻዜ፤፡ መሀር፡ ከመ
ዴይንፈጽ፡። ወዴንበር፡ ዘርጵ፡ ሰዙሎመሙ፡። ትውልፎ፡። ለንሰሲም።።

2g Omits:

2:9 Oils.

2a.

#, 8-0 (5)

4. ወይቤ

read HEሰትi

(0በ; ። ልግዚኣ፡

90 (5) # 5 HEN;

4 gu read NE
1 omits the initial ©.
5 aim. m,feB read nti
° 9 reads
1&
7 m trans. after EC; perhaps rightly: cf. Gss.
5S Fgu.
mh B read
ችጸምር፡
5 a omits.
0 9,8. ag read AYY:
i # omits together © following.
nu reads

H.

13

5 nz omits.

= kai T& eis airots

4 g omits.

corrupt

in.

for kai

SO Gss.

€is airovs= DY YEH

a~im, eko read ii

B-e kno ምንት
16 mu, lB. #97 read Jeo.
1s Superscription in # Jf: Y1ሮ: ልጸ: A?4; በaንት'ታ0Ys
5 Added in accordance

read D&.ip;
# Rስርሩልዮል፡

with Gs.

1 fn prefix ©.

m,

7 mw reads በAንትH:
a. 7/8 prefix ©.

So Gs.

PAID

5 ያ.
eas ጸሱርዬ፣ ጽልእዬር፡
ያ ጸሰፌሬዬ፡፣ ሰልዬር፡
/ ጸስርሌልዬር፡
57 ጸርስየሳልዬር፡ /ጸልስ". All are corruptions either of Lzrpailx (Gs)

or Opal (Gs). “The latter only belongs to the original: cf. lxxxix. 1.
= BL.
a, omit. But the text is supported by G. Thus Gs has kai eirey, though it has
wrongly trans. it before kai Sreuey, and Gs has Aeyey rightly at the close of ver. 1.
5 Supplied from Gs. This phrase belongs to the original text though already lost
in the Greek archetype of £. It belongs to the original; for it is preserved in 2s,
and each new command issued to the angels begins with the word ‘go, Cf. Gs
Xx. 2,4, 11. Os and E are defective in the first two passages.
e omits.
Tg
read Aስoi
= wu reads ER;
rm. gu read ትሕ". »8YYD Or ትት.
55 Pm.
ufNi

9g reads Wt; but trans. after @
as trans. WA; before EC:

which follows.
#, 8H read H#Ai
ui bx read ድምጻል
SBN,

read WA;
5 mo Save that it gives the unusual forms mm! £JPA:
Gg dnoyéret, G5 droእéat. All other MISS. read &Y5 or YY.
rad ድንፍጽ፤ ።# ንፈጽም
»a-ፉ. /,/3-u read Aችሱ፥ ። ውስ1፡
Joie:

i n.,

So also Gss.

All other MSS. omit.

5 a, BB, but bracketed as 8, G omit.
note 25), robevou, Papa,

kai.

au.

/ omits.
BD

»፡ £YPA:
50
I
IB
Sa. B reads
m, 8 read ዴቤ:

Gs adds here, and no doubt rightly (see

ENOX

IX. 0X, 4.

29

O#

G8

An Y YY $ኛእJOn aikaros Kai! &Bexias.
10. kai vy iBoy Bogrty ai Wvxai TSy
TeTekevTIKOTy Kai €yrUYXdyovrty LéXDt

T6y Gvgpdneoy €rekoy |éé atréy vioysl
#

#

ንኣ

yiyavras"

|kiBBnXa

Qy0gpéray

éxkéxvratl

Ln

éeni

[oe

rils

kai

[ey

Yis

rey

GA

3} Yi

T6y TUAG» Tog otpayog, Kat dvéf3n 6
revayu9s abrQy kai oy ByyaTat €EéNgeiy
QT Tporé Toy Ty €TL ils Ys Yvyoeévoy

eTArOn QaBtkias.
10. Kat viv iBoy lr6
TyeiuaTal T6y WuXGy S TOy drogaydy-

Qvounuéray.

11, kai cy Tdvra

po Tog abr

yevérgat,

T@y TUAGy Tog ovpayo avél3n] 6 revaYuos atrT6y kai oy Byvara €éeAgeiy &n6

oiBas

kai oy 6s

\

መጫ

Toy GygDOTney €urVyXdvovrts Kat expt
\

ን

Le

\ኣ

ን

#

ጎ

ጦ

H)

Taira Kai¥ €Gis abroys 1, kai ovB¢ (iuiy1 nporaéToy T6y én Tis Ys

Yeyoévey

Aéyets TU Bet Tote{y atroys epi Tovrea.

avra

aBtknuaTeoy,
ግ

11.

14

kat

vy

yt

ኣ

ee

ኣ

oigas

N

ጫጥ

Tp To% ?ara yevérgau kai 6p&s abroysN
ኣ

ሓ0

\

De

aN

hy)

H

#

ir

ኣ

ን

ciyia

3

[#

Hd

mn

Kat €@S @UToVS, Kat OvBéy A€Yets, Tt Get

X. Tere “YWurros eine»
|rep
Toray], # 6 éyas “AYtos, Kai 5 eAGArey
kai eirey# kat €réurey IZrpayX ? pos

TO» Vioy Aéuex

2. Einiy air eri T6

iS Gvuart Kpvyov éavrdy, kai BiAeov airy TEXOS €Tepxduevoy, grt } Y9]
QGTOAAVrat Tara, Kat KaTakXvVrHSS ENAe
Yivecrgau Tans Tis Yils kai aroAéret
Tdvra gra €rr éy5 abr]. 8. kai BiSaéoy

air6y bres €xpwyn, Kat ueyei T0 FréDua
arog eis Taas T6s yeyeas rot aigvos,
4. Kai? To Papa] einey Aijjroy ry

Totiirat ayroys epi Toyroy.
X. Tére 6 iiNytrros eine kat 6 &aytos
6 éyas €XGANe, Kat ree

T6v OPA

TpOS T6y uigy Aditex Xéyeyv 2. |
Llopetoy
pos T6y NGe kai] einoy atry TO fue
[
QvdkaTe
Kpiroy eavrdy, kal) BlAeroy
@irT® TEAOS €éTepX eyo, Ort 1] yi] Tox
ኣ

ን

መሓ

h

መ

ላ

IN

ን

[4

ን

\ኣ

2

ey

fas

€

መሓ

ያሓ

ዓ

ን

መኣ

JA

Avra Tra’ Kai [eiTgy atr@ Grul kara.
KXVZuOs LéXXet Yivérgau Tans Ti)s Yi§,
GTOAérat Tdyra &n0 Tporaroy Tils Yils.
3. Bigaéov ¥rey Bikatoy 10 Ti |Toulret,
N
T6y Vigy Aduex, kai) ily WrvXIlv
arogFe
eis Coily vvrnpycet, Kail éxepeyéerat
Ly

\ኣ

[4

\

21

[4

[8% aigyos], kai €£ arog |pvrevgiirerau]
3

ላጦ

[ey

pyrevua |xai]l raglrerav das ras
Yeveds To aiQyos. 4. Kat Ty Pabax
ጫ
=
eire
|IIopeyovy, Papaiix, Kai]\ biirov
Toy
ላ

1 MS. has atas.,

EF = ra eis abrovs—a corruption.

2 E omits wrongly.

ሓር

I

" E =

9 béyas kai 6 Gycos,
4 These words should with GsE be placed after Aeuex.
s Emended by Raderm,
E = kai sire moos airdy. Gs Méyoy.
5 See note 23, p. 24.
5 Gg E = ai Wuxai.
2 Emended by
from erty.
+ E adds Tax 5 xuptos,

Raderm. from ry,

i0 Gg E = ard,

56

መጽሐፈ:

ዛና

X. 4-9

ሰፉፋሌል፡ ኣስሮ፤ ሰጸዛ'ዝጹል፡ በኣዴሆሁ። ወኣግፉ፡’ ወዶደየ፥ ውስተ፡ ጽእመ፡ ወጸብቅዋ።
ሲገዳም፡ ኣንት፡ ሀሰወት፡ በዷዳሌል፡፡ ወደየ ህዩ፡
5. ወ“ደፎይ፡ ሰዕሌሆሁ፡፡ ጻብ፤፡ ጠጦዋያ1፡
ወበሲሓ፡ ወዃ.ፎኖ፡፡ ጽልመተ ወህዩ፤ ዴሣ.ፎር፡፡ ሰዓሰሞ፤ ወ።“ክ.ፎኖ፤ ሲገዷ፡'" ከመ፤ ዚድርጸይ፡
ብርሃነ።
6. ወበዕለት፡ *ዓባይ፡ ኣንተ; ቫነኔ፣ ከመ፡ ዴትፈኖ፡" ውስ ዋዕዶ፤ 7. ወጸጠሕይድዋ፡

ሰምድር፡። ኣን ክማሰኒ፡ መሳኣጻካት፣ ወሕዶወን፡ ሰሲምድር፡'፡ ጸድድዕ፡፣ ከመ፣ ያሕዴ(ው)ዋ፣"
ሰምድር፡” ወ“ጸ“ደትሐኮሰሱ፡ ዙሎመ፡ ውሱደ፡ ሰብኳ፡” በምሥጢር

ሹሱ፡። ተዘቁትሴ፡ተ።

ችጌሃን፡። ወመሀፉ፡፥ ለውሱድሙ።
8. ወማሰነት፡ ዙሹሳ፡።” ምድር፤ “በትምህርተ” ፃብሂ፡
ሰጸዛዝጴል፡ ወሳዕሴሆሁ፡። ጸሐፍ ዙሉ ኃጢጸተ።”
9. ወሰገብርዜል፡ ድቤሉ፡ ጻፇኘዚላኣ፡”
ሑር፡። ደቤሆመ፡፥ ለመንዝራን፡። ወሰምኒናን፤ “ወዲበ; ውሱደ፡። ዘማ፡። ወ“ጸሣኮሎመሙመ፡።

[ለሰው.ደ፤

ዘማ፡

በበ“ደናቲሆመሙ፡፥

ወ|“ለውዙደ፡።
ኣሙንቱ፡"

ቫኙሃን፡

ወሰሊሆመሙመ፡

ኣምሰብኣ፡።
በቁቀትል፡

1 efkop(vY Xa 5 read AW:
ወጦጸብቅዩኛ

ወ“ዘውዕፀጸሙ፡፡”"

ዴትሐሕጕኮሰ፡

ጻስመ፡

|ወፈንዎመ፤|
ኒሐ፡።

5-7, n. 9, /8read DAIéሆi

፡ 9, a read ዲዱ.ድሌል፡

° # omits.

6 = eriges.

መዋዕል

? mn,
Ta.

read

#, Bread

ጸጻባ፤
s rm read DMS;
/ inserts በ18 before ወ.
? መ reads YC:
10 g reads ከደኖ: በጽልመት! 4 ድ? AI:
" m, be (#7) read “AYE
= Trans.
with Gs.
5 0g. ag, 710 read ini
B7I0 imi
# = kai iagat, SO G5.
£m,» read ”"A®; bX omit initial ©.

s Em. from Php;

» m omits.

See note 4 below.

1 wu omits.

of Zmu in accordance with G idrevrat (so also Flemming).

gt ac/hoxy,a read RhZዋ; SdekiInp (vw)X5 RRP:
aty omit.
» o omits.
See note 5 below.
a mn. So als0 9, Save that it reads A for 0. All other MSS.
በምሥጢረ; except mu which read A for 0, and o which omits 0 before ም".
= So all MSS. but 4,
which read WN;
= gmdragay. See note 6, p. 21:

= m adds መAላANY'S

” 7 omits,

5 IB.

mu,

w a, 8,

B reads AJHLAAብሔC:

mt, 8 read CS

read Adi

5 trans. the AHA:

5g, abg%x.

f/nop (5) a,b read ለመራ};
Tie ropyeias (G).
m reads ADEN

25 4» read በትምርት
# trans, alter next word.
reads pAመibéራi:

5 9 reads ወው

uo BU.

a omits.

Fmt,

noyb

read ወé.iPs

reads DA;

after ደሆ

IN

mn AOiW#ራh;

Zs, ce/ (8?)

5 Corrupt for HY; =

#g, af omit next three words through hint,

5 gt Bao.

® An interpolation in E.

u reads NEY:
G omits.
7 m reads pt:
5 2 reads Aስኸi
“ 9 reads NBAPmi
“ f 5-ny.
rendering.

7

5 መመ reads Jጣው፡

9 ip;

Spa

prenxiA.

#Fgu.

mh8 read HDi

ENE

Er OeEs

a =F,

(5, Tእካንኻነሩ,

5 MS,

a omits.

(sic).
5g prefixes ©.
Bracketed as a dittographic

tarovrat,

5

ሠ read

በበ; 0.

4 E =

iy Jv,

To explain the fact that in this and the next clause £ has both times PEC; = YY,
Gs has both times Anyi, and Gs has first Yi} and then Anyi], We may assume that
TAMMY] Was the original in both cases, and that Gs represents the first stage in the

corruption and E the second.

Or We may assume

that the Variations in (2 arose

NX. 49

ENOX

97

Og

[et

ACaYX Toriy kai Xepriy, Kat Bdxe avry
eis T9 kgTos, kat (iyoéoy Tilyv €puoy
Tv oray €y TO AaBoX kékei Bdxe
ጋ

\N

#

atrdy,

})

5.

kai

LA

N

yrdgesi

Ls

avr

Aigovs

TpaXeis Kat Qéeis kai €TukdAuyroy air

3

AMXኣ

Xeprti

SFE

kaiኣ Tori

ኣ።

[rvurégtroy

BN

ary], Kat €uBaAé

3

Ly

gets

[Eee

baroy Kat pas ul geapeire’

A

N

[4

TS LeyaAnsS

ገ

La

ን

[ey

[Fe

le

#

iN

3

[4

kai

ጦ

[Xigovs]

\

mN

Tpaxeis

Kat

ጦ

rt

ላ

KdXuwoy @urT® FkOToS, Kat otkNFaTa €Kei
ጋ
N
ዓጦ
C
ላ
A
Ld
ን
[ey
[4
eis TO» aiQya’ Kat Tገly Oty @urog T=
[4

i

\ኣ

T1]s Kpirees aTaxglreTat

[4

kat yotéoy Tilv €piuoy ily ogray €y Ti]
ፆ
SR)
)
In
)
[eoniue] AovgaiX, Kai éxet [ ropevgeis ]
BAe avrdy’ D. kal irdges aur Xigovs
Ny

TO ZkdTos, Kai oiknrdra ékei eis Toys
aiavas, Kai Ty Wty avrog Taltaroy kai
Pe
CN
ይ
©
ME)
ERY
b6s un geapeire’
6, kat €y T)] Juépg
ኃጦ

ላኣ

avroy eis To koros,

oy

#

ጦ

\N

\

Ly

#

=

[A

3

ጫሓ

እ

ን]

6. Kat €y

ot viol TO» Gy6pOnay €» T9 uveTnpiy
Xe! 6 Tf €rdragay +5 ot €yolyopov kat
cBi(Ba)gay Toys viobs atréy,
8. Kai
Nonuen ara } Y] [apavvrgeira] ? ¢y

TI] Nueépa Ts Kpirées araxgrerTat eis
TOv €uTvptruov [roy ups].
7. kai
Ly
N
[en
A
3
[4
ሩ
ጋ
ያ
tara Tily YI» ly» Ipdvtray ot €ypnl14
UT
ES
a
ne
yopou , Kat TN» tary Ts TXYYNS BX
N
oy, efiva X® tdayvrat Tገly
AYN»Nei Tip Katላ
in GTOABVTaU TayTéS ot Vtot Ty Gvgpeኮ)
ጥ
#
Tay €»
T@AN uvTnpty# 0A éiroy
obrE]€yplyopot
kai €Bigagay Toys vioys avr@y,
8, ka

Xrots €pyous Tis Bigarkaxias s ‘ACN:

NonuéOn Tara 1 Y]] €y Tots €pyous Tis

ypdyroy TesTas a Gluaprias
) Taras.
)
kaii €er ayr@5 Ypdyroy

BBarkaaias

€is TOV €»Tvptuoy.

7, Kat tagnlerTat

1] 1], 1» ሐaytay

ot ayyexots Kat Ty

by

t

ኦነ

መሓ

ግ

ፆ

[AN

Ly

ን

lA

[mn

ሓ

9

tory T1]$ Ys

T1]። TA»
\N

€

oN

[Ny

il

ያ

ኣ

ey

N

PI

BAaroy, ya

3

t(trayra

, ሠዉ ሠገ] 7 ፈሾOA@yTat TayTéS

Le

UE)

ን

Ls

4

FEY

€

ላ

ኣስ

ን

2)

J

6

N

/

by

[A

nN

ያ

ጥ

€

TRS

AN

ኮ)

ፆ

[A

Ci

ላ

H

9. Rat re TaBDX éirey 9 kuptos" [Iopevoy

eri Toys a(péoys, €ri Toys KuBBIIAovs?
en
fo
TIO
kaiኣ Toys^ viovs
Tis
Topyeias
10, katND &nd-

Xeroy 11 Toys Viovs T6y €ypnyépey &n6
=

TO»

138

Gvgparey" 5

L

Téuyroy avroys 15 ¢€y

TOAéH® &TeoXeias. akpérns YD JuepSy

ኣጫ

€

[4

N

2)

ፆ

\

[Lo

#

2s

#

ኦሪ

1

\N

[4

=

EN

[ey

Ly

ACaIA'

kai

ያ

ጋ

3

[4

መ

ላ

¢n

arn 75
N

yparoy Taras Tas auaprtas.,
9. Rat
=
N
,
RS
[i
[ry
T@ Tap
sire
[IIopevoy, [TaBp:ix
NY
iN
ፆ
ጋኔ
N
%
[4
€TU Toys YiyavTas, €Tt Toys KiI3IIXoys,
€TU TOVS VLoys Ti]S Topyéeias, Kat TONEOy
[4

2)

ኣ

#

NS

IN

en

}

is

ፆ

ላ

#

Nln:ን

#

Toys Vioys T6y €YDnYODeoy &n9 T@y vi@y
Pn

TOV

3

[4

ayODaTay’

aAAIAovs,

5

[

Teuroy

¢£ atr6y

3

ኣ

avToys

3%.)

éts

eis abroys 17, €y

Méue Kal kai €y¢y GToxeia.,
GToAet
TONED

al akpሪTS
)T
Kat

from two possible renderings of NyJIN which punctuated as Ry IS = Yi, and as RYN
= ሾእኻነኝ.

5 MS. ny.

5 Here erdragay = YAR

corrupt for ነግISDN = eimoy as we

have in Gs; conversely in 2 Chron. xxii, lo a = eirey is an error for ART
Bouriant’s conjecture eréraray which 1 formerly followed is impossible.
= dreoAeey.
eréraay

cannot

be used in this sense.

7 Gs E omit.

5 E =r]

Sugarkayia

9 iBgnNos here seems to represent Nyy (cf. Lev. xix. 19; Deut,
XX. 11) or some derivative of it as representing beings who are derived from two

Toy

€pyoy.

0 E = rdpwns, corrupt for
distinct classes of creatures.
E took it as = agdweios.
52 E adds efardretNoy airovs kai—a&
iE adds Toye vioys Tye Tሪpwms kai.
14 (G8 E, = Gy yeAot,
1» See
dittographic rendering.
35 Add eis GእAAovs with (G8 EF.

Topyeias,

note 4 above,

1 Gg avrg.

7 So also E. Gs omits.

28

መጽሐፈ፡

ጸልእቦሙ፡፤፣
ኣስመ፡

10. ወሸዙሱ፡፡ ዘ'ዴቤጸሱክ፡፡

ድይቤፈዉ፡፣

ኣምኔሆመ፡

ይሣግየዉ፡፡። ሕዴወት፡

ኃምስተ፡

ምልኣት

ዛኛህኻ፡

X. 0-16,

|ወ |ጺድክውን፡

ዘሰዓጎሰም፡

ካረምተ።"

ሰጸበዩሆሙመ፡

ወከመ

ይሕየዉ፡”"

11. ወለሰሚካጹል፡።

ዶቤ

በጻንቲጸሆሙ፡፡
ጸሐዳ፡

ጸሐዲኗ፡

“ጻግዚኣ፡

ሖር

ተጸድ.ፎዕ፡” ሂለስምያዛ፡ ወሰለካልጻን፡ ኣሰ፡ ምስሴሆ፡፥ ኣሰ
ሐብፉ፥
ምስሰ፤
ጸንስት፡
ከመ፡ ድማስኒ፡ ምስሴሆን፡ በ"ርዙሰ፡ ዚጸሆን።።
12. ወ"ሰበ፡ ይትራገዘ፣ ዙሱ፡”
ውሱደመ፡ ወሰበ” ዶሬኳዩ፣ ሕጕሎመሙ፡፥ ሰፍቁራኒሆመ፡ ኣስሮመ፡ ሰኛትውልደ፡ በመትወሐቱ፡
ጸውኝፃርተ፡።” ምድር፤ ኣስክ፡ ዕሰ ቫነኔሆመ፡፥ ወትፍጻጃተመ፡ “ኣስከ፡ ይትፌጸም ቫነኔ፡
ዘሰ“ዓሰመ፡።” ዓሰም።
13. ወበውኣጻቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ዶወስድዎመ፡፥ ውስት፤ መትሕት፡።
ኣሰ (ወ)።በጻ0ር፡ ወበቤተ፡ ሞቅሕ፣ ወ“ዴትዓፀዉ፡።” ሰ"ዓሲም።
14. ወሰበ” ተይውዒ፤ተ።
ወድማስኽ ጳምዴኣዜ፡ ምስሌሆሙ” ሕቡረ፡ ዴትጸሰፉ፥ ኣስከ ተፍጻት፡። ትውልደ
ቸውልፎ።
15. ወጸሣጐሎሙ፡። ሲሱሉ “መናፍስት፡። ትወኔኝ፡።” ወሰው ሱዶመ፡ ሰትጊሃን፡
ሓስመ፡ ገፍዕዎመ ለሰብጻ።
16. ሕል” ሹሉ 7ፍ9;" ኣምገጻ፡" ምድር፡ ወዙሱ፡።
ምጋበረ፡።

omit.

ኣኩይ፡ ዴሣልቅ፡"“

ወያስተርዉ፡”

ተፕኳለ፡" ጽፎቅ፡ ወርትዕ፡

ወይክውን፣

ሰበረከት፤፣

9 prefixes ©.
‘/ mguread tN; 8 OfNrms
°t. All other MSS.
“ያመ. 9 reads ይሰRሱክ፡ /። 5 ዴስጻሱክ፤ Marginal gloss in / RትYCE

ውሱደ፤

9,8.

et omits.

f has an erasure.

ያሃ። read ወጺይኩን፣

= ኣስመ፤ ጴይከውን፤፡

"9/1 prefix.

Sgmiw.

fh 0 read in singular. dfBop *(vy) a add hዴወትi
7 omits next three words.
mg, B read él:
mg BY read LN

4 adds Wy:

ae/5'

in Ge.

See note 2, p. 29.

But this is corrupt.

“m, Jnox,a read ANብR;
a omits.

m prefixes ©.

° 0c add ¥.

cx add hድወችi HAYA:
= tf, en add.
gus").

1 /u, %° save that Zt, % read ሑር:

oy) x read AJHLRAAሔC;

Al other MSS. read tt:
Probably corrupt for aw

‘9,8.

9,8 omit.

Irs

ab AJHLRብሔC: Ci
Read ANC; here.

10.

7 m omits.
5 # mn read “Pap
a rendering of the Greek art, oi.

/ Aሰብዓ፤

4 g reads A ት.

/። ኣስኳክ፡ ሰ".
wu omits.

3m.

5 ae omit.

muy, cg

"= Biእorov
(SOalsO, (5,

1s B omits.
1 wu reads ©.

/u, B~a read RIES
SPB

reads

. መሣችትመ፤ ። ፓፍጻጃ1፡
7 Added in accordance with G.
ia 8 Onkss
5 m reads £ትዓgውi / YO".
0 8-9 read ሰዓሰመ፡
1 a= gray corrupt for
6s Gv. PB read ወሰ@y; Instead of the first seven words of this verse # reads AY:

ዶዴወስፎዎመ፡ ድማስኒ፡ ግሣቡረ፡ ኣሱራኒሆመሙ፡
5 9 reads Ei
Read AY WY); see
note 8, p. 29.
5 ho read ወAስhi ሰዓለ: (5) 5 insert this phrase before PN.
5 m adds YoY; H.
uo. mg, c read PRP". / 8-cox AP". # PAD.
5 adds ጥበቢሆመ።
FL m,l8~e read AN
gu, e omit.
5 Em. with G
from HEAT;
5 G has Sv «Bboy,
Smt Ff Other MSS. read 3¢0;

Sng.

tu, 8-y read IAC;

5 ይ8-x.,
መፃ, x read Ah 2 AN
ሓ m reads AIR: NA.
5 gu read WN;
» reads ድር:
4 fb agehinab, £9, bcFo read

X. 9-10,

ENOX

99
[ei

Ie,

Ok €rTuy @UTOy,
[ey

kai Tara €porn[I

10,

€

[ey

ን

Ld

ን

I)

ኣ

Tuepay Ovk €rrat aurots,

ፆ

Im

10, Kat Tara

cusi (obk) grat Tots TaTpdrty avry
\
Pn
mn
[cai] epi a%rSy1, Gru €AXTicovrwy (rat
ኣ
Pd
Ni
Le
ef
Cony aiayvtoy, Kat Ort CilreTat €KaTos

€epdTmets ovk €grTt Tois TaTpdrty abr @y,
Oru eXTitovru Cia Coily aidytoy, Kat
Gru (Nrerat €xarros avr@y ¢rn Teyra-

11. Kai eirey
avr&y €T1] Tevrakdrta.
(9) Mxax [Iopevyoy kai TBiAarovtf=
Seuta(Cd kai ois XotTots Tots by arty

kr.
11, Kai T9 Mixa eine
[lopeoy, MixaIX! Biiroy SeutaCay kai
Toys (XAOVS Uy @bTG» Toys uluutyévTas

Tats Yuvatéty Ltyévras, utavgiivat €y avrais

Tats gvyarTpart Ty Gygperay To0 tay.
Oiiyau €y ayrats ¢€y 71 Qkagaptig avr.
ጦ
12. kai gray KaTapayéruy
ot Viot)

L)

m

ip

h

ን

€» T1] Gkagapt®

መ

avr @y

6

18, kat

N

e

OTay

KaTarpay@Scty ot viol avrQy

Kat (Borty

Tv

QGTXetay

[ey

BNrov

avrovs

[ey

\

ኦ)

መ

c

CN

ን

IN

TOyv

ፆ

NY

éyamréy,

N

ግን

cBgouilkoyra

%

4

ኣ

[ey

ets

c

JA

ላ

3HFUvKNeieas

ን

\ኣ

ኋ

=

5

Qy < TkaTakavr0nt ? kal apaytrgn, ary
Toy

Uy

ሓ

ሓ

er

Ly)

avray

Ouoy

UN

L1

Segoyrat

[el

#

LéXpt TeXetécreas Yeveés.
15. ATOAéroy ndyra Ti Tyevkara TOy
Bd T6 aBikilrat Toys Qvgpénous.
16.
[ey

[ey

TNS

[ey

YS»

Kat

ላ

[my

Tay

iy

€Dyov

#

TovIptas

4

Biloy
ኣ

Ty

avyrovs

eri

ን

ጋ

Yeyés

@ToAetay
#

N

[A

[ey

ets Tas vanas

€

ፆ

ን

[el

Xér0]

TINS

Kptua

Tob

aiyos

Ley

[4

ef

TOv

aigvay.

13. Tore Greyvexgilrovrat eis T9 Xdos Tog
[4

[4

14, kaix 05

aigyos 3.

aréy,

N

#

13. Tore

eis Tv Barayoy kai eis T0 Berheriiptoy
\

[4

[ey

Y]]s uéXpt Jluépas Kpirews avrQy, expt
jIépas rexevéreas [Texero
],Eas ruvre-

aTaxOrovrau eis T9 Xdos Tog ups kat
})

N

Tv

#

Ly

air@y kai vyTéNeuo, €as exergy T9
Kpika Tog aiQyos T@y aievay.

እ

iSect

€BBotlkoyrTa

[le

ን

Pe

Ld

ላ

QyannTéyv

})

Tas vdras Ti)s Yi)5 MEXDt JIuépas Kpirées
መጦ

kai

Vr

ላ

NM

\

[/

ayrav

[kai]

yeéyveas

[4

LA

[ny

TUDOS

Kat «ts Ty

ኣ

N

3

N

fe

BaZayoy
[4

kat

ets

)

TO

3

ኣ

BeruaTilptoy Ti)s CvykXeires Tot ai@yos.
3
14. katላ 05 @y
KaTaxptg][oy kai Qpavtr0y,m
&an9 Tog y0y uer avr@y Begmoera uéxpt
TéAetagéwS YeveGs avr.
KuBAwy Kal Toys viovs TOy €ypIyOpeoy
[4

[my

[ey

ላ

Kat

ላ

)

[ey

GTOAéroy
3

#

€KAévTéTw,

[6

ኣ

Kat

Nn

Ty
N

ን

agtkiay
rs

#

ayapavlTe

ፆ

Taray

@TO

ኣ

N

oy

ላ

To

puroy

ኦ)

ኣ

71s

Bukatogyvns kat Tils GAMgeias 5 eis Toys aigvas .... ker Xaps purev(gil)erat.
52 = FE. Read Béruoroy as Radermacher sug- ሖ
1 MS. epyeres. Em. by Lods.
gests and change datives into accusatives. Perhaps GsE go back to ABN corrupt
for AON = Bfiroy. But Radermacher s conjecture seems right. The corruption of
Béheoroy (Or Béruevrow) into BilNeroy i5 native to Gs; for the original acc. keyévras still
5 E = rai vyxNetgilrovra eis Toys aieyas—a free rendering of the text.
remains.
4 Em,

with Gs from

oray:

የሐልቐ፡

።, = ዩየኃልቅ፡

margin PY

5 =F.

E = gray,

¢ Add with E, ai Sora eiእoyia’

Corrupt for taraxpegy as in Os.

Ti fpya Tis Bexatoriwn)s kai Tis SAgeias lost through hmt.

። (87) ይሣለሕ፡

7 » reads በረhl:

45

g reads ወያስትረa

5 # has gloss in

90

መጽሐፈፉ፡

ህዛኛኻ፡

XI

2ብረ;' ጽ.ፎቅ፡ ወርትዕ፡ ለንሰም፡፡ በ'ፍሥሓ፤ ዶተክሱ፡፡

RHE

17. ወ’ይኣጻዜኒ፡ ሹሎመ፡ ጻ.ፎቃን፡፡

ዴኾዴዩ፡ ወይከወኒ፤ ሕሐያዋህ፡ ኣስከ፣ ይወልዱ; ፲፪; ወሹሎ፡ መዋዕሰ፡ ውርዙተመ፡ ወ“ሰንበ1፡
ዚጸሆሙ። ይፌጽመ፡" በሰሳም።
15. ወበጻማንቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ትትገበር፡" ዙሳ፤ ምድር"
በጽ.ፎቅ፣ ወ“ሹሰለንታሃ፡” ትተክል፡ ዕጸወ፡ “ወትመልኣ፡ በረከተ።።
19. ወዙ
ዕፀወ፡"፣
Jግኝት፡ ዴትክሱ፡" ዲጁቤሃ፡ ወዴትካሱ፡”" ደቤሃ፤ ጸው”
ወወይን;” ዘዴተክከል፡። ዲዴጃቤሃ፡
ዶገብር፡። ወይኔ ሰ“ጽጋብ፡ ወዙሱ፡ ዘርኣ፡፡ ዘዴዘራኣ፤ ዷቤሃ፡ ጸሐቲ፡። መስፈርት ትገብር
ኣልፈ፡።” ወጸሐቲ፡ መስፈር1፡ ጴልያስ፡ ትገብር” ፲ ምክሇደ፡” ዘዴት።
20. ወጸንተ
ጸንጽሓ፤ ሲለም.ድር፡ ኣምዥሰ፡ 7ፍ0; ወጻምሰሱ፡ ዓመባ፡ ወኣምዙሰ፡ ኃጢጸት፡ ወጻምዥሴ፡
ረሲዕ፣

ወ“ዙሱ፡

ርሹስ፡።

ዘዶትገበር፡

በኗሄበ፤

ም.ድር፡

ጸሣልቁሙመ፡።”

ጳምዲኗበ፡።

ምድር።

21. ወይደኩታ፡”። ሹሱ፡። ውሰደ ሰብኳ፤ ጻድቃኔ" ወ።ፎኩኑ፡። ሰሱ ጸሕዛብ፡። ምልኩ”
ወደበርኩ፡ ኪያዩ፡ ወሸዙሎመ፡ ሲት፡ ዶሰፃዱ።"
22. ወገገጽሕ፤ ም.ፎር፡ ኣምሲሉ ሙስና
ወኣምሹሱ፡፤ ኃጢጸት፡ ወ“ኣምዙሲ፡” መቅሠፍ “ወኣምዥሲሱ፡ ጻዕር፤“። ወጺይደደፃም፡ ከመ፡
ኣፈኒ፡“ ዷቤሃ፡“ ሰትውልደ፡ ትውልደ ወጻስክ፡ ሰ"ዓሲም።
XI. በ*AማንE;። መዋዕል
ኣፈትሕ፤ መዛግብት፣ በረከት“ ኣሰ፡ በሰማይ፡ ከመ፡ ጸውርድመሙ፡ “ዷበ፡ ም.ድር፡ ደበ፡ ገብሮሙ
ወደበ፡ ባማሆመ“ ሰውሱደ፤ ሰብኳጻ።
52. ወ“ሰሳም፡ ወርት'ዕ፡ ሱቱፋነ ይከወኑ" በዙ

መዋዕሰ፡”

ዓለመ፡

ወበዙሰ፡

ትውልደ፤

ዓሰም።

XII.

ኣምቸ.ድመi”

Aa”

ሃር;

iam. mM, B~e read PAC; e TCI
im omits.
0 omits.
g/u,eBn(w)ya.
#, abecdfF (RPI0x B read Yt: before which # prefixes ©. wu RYhAt
°f omits.
5 Bc trans. before KW.

# omits.

in margin APBRYS
C-ALPR

a7.

g reads Lt:

reads RAEI

See note 1, Dp. 31.

"9/u,l8.

8 LIYE:

° 9 reads ሰ HAW:
#Z reads ፈጽም:

/ adds sloss

We should read

m ፌም

"niu

&. ድ reads ትገብር፡ ያ ትትIበር
sz For this and next two words m reads ታhi
s G has ¢y air}.
iu, ceBInxab. &,abdg/oy read ተYnAi » ThA: 9 omits.
5 dg omits. £ has the superscription ait; 0ፀ@ መስፈር; ልስ; iC:
"sn.
7#u, B-g read PWN;

dq omits.

7 m reads 0g©i

d omits.

™* mgu, B0IBVX.

Zt, abcqe/lo,a read ዴኻ
» mf abcefaIxab.
dq omits together with
next word. Zu, #0 read &Ynti
” #, 0y read AY: # trans. before £Yi
mn
reads DF » Or;
5 mg, BDI. FhbgIX ay read HEA: 2 HYhA:
5 reads 1.
oH].
#AYI0C;
Amt.
reads Dy: 3-1» Foi in
£07;

u omits.

hmt.
፡ያu.

= Fn read ¥Hdés
9reads Wf Cኩስ፡

5 2 omits.

5 gy omit,

57 9 omits next four words through

” # reads JA: # 1YI0C
» a. 5 reads ያዳ
» tሱ፥ / 8 ምሱ ርሹስ፡ or ርሹስ፣ / 5 read ርኩስ፣

The construction is that of a nominativus pendens.

scription in Z AY;

መዛግብተ; በረከ;

o (2) add DAH:

5 0u read NY.

Super.

5 , nl read Xf

# c reads hori
Gloss in / hi Aሰi ብርሃም
5 gL anx read WN
qd omits.
5 g omits.
57 mw omits.
5 m reads ሐዝ
5 wu reads Pao.
fh Fn ay read A785

» un omit.

= 780 trans. before preceding two words.

X. IT XII.

L.

ENOX

31

17. Kai vy Tdvres oi Bikatot éxbevgovrats kai grovrat (CSvreés gas yeyyljrarty
XUAtGBas, kai Tarat ai Jlkepat yedrTnros avréy, kai {rT dlglfara airy 1 ueré
[ey

\

ጮ

bye

5

9

eipilvns TANpeorovzty

N

e

#

18,

Toré

cpyarghlerat

ኃ

IN

Kat

lw

ግ

mn

14

KaTabureygj
erat BévBpoy
[ey

L

iN

«y avr,

6n

ላ

ጮጮ

Tara

[4

[my

ኮኔ)

ፆ

1] Y)] ey
1)

TAIbilrerat

[ey

[Us

ኣ

Bikatoryyn

#

evxoyias,

ኣ

19,

kat
#

kai Tdyra

Z

Tr BevBpa Tis T ¥i}s GyaAXtdrovrat 5 purevglc erat, Kal ¢rovrat bvreiovres GuTéNoys,
ጋሕ
ፆ
[
iy
ap
f
(KJaiNe 3] Gikrekos ily
Qy bvreirerw,
Toujrovreyw
boxogsin oiyvov'
¥ XXidBas
kaiላ
[
£
2
[
A
[4
BN
H
[4
ኣ
FnOpoyu role Kag €kayroy uérpoy «, €Xaias Touilget Gy6 Bdrovs Béka.
20, kai
N

[4

N

ry Kagaptroy

[ey

)

\N

ily Yily GTO

[A

H)

Tags

[4

B

akagaptas ? Kat

\

)

ang

ኣ

[A

F)

Tans

[4

ን

QBkias

ኣ

kai &aTg

(Tajrns Saprias kat 5 Qrefeias, kai néras Tas Gkagapgias Tis Ytvouéyas emi
Tis Ys €édxetyoy 7,
21, kai €royrau Tyres Aarpetovres oi Aaoi kai éyAoyoyrTes Tayres éuot Kai Tporkvvogvrés.,
22, kai kagaprgilrerat (néiral 3) yf
ኣ
ላ
[ey
aT0 TabTs tuaTos Kai GTO Tans éikagapgias kai dpyils kai darTyos, kai
iy
[a
Py)
hy
ኣ
ጋ
[4
ኣ
ኣ
[el
Pn
(6
ጋ
#
OVKéTt Tér® €T avroys éiS Tiras Tas yYevedis Tot aigyos,
XI, kai) Tre
Gyoifa
Ta Takeia TiS eUAoyias Ta Gvra €y T@ obpay@, kai Kareyéykeiy abr 5 én T& ¢oya,
enti TOy KdToy TO» viéy T6y GvOpdney.
2. kai (Tdrél # GXilgeta Kai eiplvwn?
mn
ሓ
nN
\
Koyeomlrovgty Guo eis das T6s iluépas Tog ai@Syos kai eis das T6s yeyeds
1

c

ፆ

NOs)

ፆ

መሓ

ኣ

/

ኣ

)

መሓ

N

መጫ

HERR)

[Lm

R

#

N

#

ላ

መጦ

መ

BN

[I

\ኣ

[a

la)

10

TOY GygpeTwy

XII.

ፆ

Ilo roirey
\ኣ

r6y
[nN

AUyay

Xie
#

L

EyOx,

Kai

\

oybeis Tay
ኣ

GyvOpédTeoy

ጦሓ

r = hnnay in which the word is wrongly vocalized for nna = « their old age”
The error is explicable in Heb, also BIn2y instead of Bria (Wellhausen, ,Sfisses vi,
pp. 241, 260). Hence read 79 yiipas aire.
5 Appears to be intransitive here.
E renders it transitively and puts the preceding nominatives in the accusative,

2 Corrupt.

1 cannot restore the text,

found elsewhere,

« Tree of joy (as in E) is an expression not

rdyra Ta Sévgpa iis Yiis GyaAvdroyrat = JI» RJR ion 53.

two Words may be corrupt for 3a

nS, = « goodly in appearance.

have rdyra Td SevBpa pata Tg eiget,

At any rate G and E are corrupt.

may be an intrusion,

Text is translateable but seems corrupt.

rdpos 6 rapeis €y air] €karroy kérpoy role

phrase is a nominativus pendens.
aro Tile Ys

5k adds rans.

21, kai €royras réivres oi vio TOy dygpereoy Bikatot

iE tFas,

k=

1 adds PAW;
ላጻፊ፤፡

XAtdgas kai €karroy uérpov.

5 E = g8teias.

EOF

5 9 reads AE

The last

Thus we should
pvrevgilrerat

FE = kai més 6
The opening

7 E adds

5 E adds emi Tiiy Yi.

aieyay a wrong expansion of ayrey which appears in G.

መቅሠፍYi

n reads simply O4OC: and trans. as ho.

BRnOX BS add Ri
7g adds iy

cg/y,a RS;
#2, B omit.

# 9 reads

5 9, (5) a4d ዓሰመ፤

45 c reads AW;

መዋዕል፤ ሲ. Superscription in £ J0i +hብti yn:
aim.
B prefixes ©.
5 Em. from WW with G. m adds ትውAE

ng reads

m reads Am.

89

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኖኻ፡

XTT RRS

ተክብተ። ሄኖኳክ፡ ወጸልቦ፡ ዘያጸምርሮ፡፡ ኣምውሱደ፡ ሰብኳ፡ በኘበ፡ ትክብተ፡ ወ’ሣበ፡ ሀሉ
ወምንት ከኮነ።
52. ወ።ተሹሱ፡ተ፡ ፃብፉ፡ ምስለ፡ “ትጌጉሃን፡ ወምስለ ቅዲሳን፡፡ መዋዕለ
ዚጸሆሁ።
3. ወጸ ሄኖኻ፡ ኮንኩ፡ ኣባርኮ፡ ሲ“ኣንገዚጸ፡፡። ዕበድ ወለንጌሠ፡’" ዓሲም፤
ወናሁ; ትኙሃን፡ ደጴውዑ፤ኒ፡ ሲ፡” ሰሃኖሕክ፣ ጸሓፊ" ወዴቤሱኒ።"
4. ሄኖክ፤ ጸሓፊ፡
ጽፎቅ፣ ፁር፡'፡ ጸድ.ፎዕ፡ ሰትጉሃ፤ ሰማይዴ፤፡ ኣሰ፡ ሐደጊ፥ ሰማዩ፡ ልዑሰ፡ ምቅዋመ፡” ቅዱሰ፡።
ዘሰዓሰም፡ ወምስለ ጸንስጎ፥ ማሰኔ፡፤ ወገብ" ከመ፡” ዴገብፉ፡። ውሱ ሰብጻ፡። ወነሥዉ፡
መሪ ጸንስት፥፡ ወማሰፉ፡” ዓቢየ፡ ሙስና፣ በዷበ፡ ምድር።
5. ወጺዴይክከውን፤፡ ሎሙ
ሰሳም፡።

ወሣድገተ፡

ፍቁራኒሆመ፡

ጋጢጸት።።

ይደሬኣዩ፡”

ወዚጺይከውን፣

ሎመ፡

6. ወ“ጻስመ፤

ወፈዷበ፡

ሐጕለ፡

ውሱደመ፡።።”።

“ምሣረት፥ ወሰላም።።

በጻንተ፡

ዘመሀርካ፡።

ወሓጢክገ፥

ዘጽርጸድክ፡

ሰሰብጻኣ።"

ወጻመሙንቲ፡

“ሸሎመ፡

ከመ፡ ኣጽሐፍ፡

ፈርሁ“

ስመ

1 = ሪእiJuሐon.

ሳዕ ሌከ፡። ይኣስርክ።

7ፍ0;

ወበኣንገ፡

3. ጸሃ፡

ወ“ፍርሃት፡

2 0u.

ዙሱ፡፥

ሕዊዩርዩ፤

“ነሥመጸሙ፣

ወይስኣሱ፡

ለንሰም፡።

for At

2. ወ።ሣሕት" ወስጻሰት።
ምፃባረ፡

ጽርፈት

ወፇፍዕ፡*"

ነገርካክዎመሙመ፡፥

በቸሎመ፡

ሣቡሪረ፤።

“ወረዓ.ድ።“"

4. ወተስኣሱኒ፡”

ሣ.ፎገት፣ ወ“ከመ፡። ስኔ; ጻዕርን፡"

Other MSS. read HEA".

° Corruption

ቁትለ፡።”

ዶግዕፉ፡።

“ትዝኻካረ፣ ስጻሰት” ከመ፡ ይኩኖሙ”

« 0 reads ምንት

በውሱዶመ፡።

XIII. ወሃኖሕ፡ ጋሲፎ፡ ድዴቤሉ፡። ሲሰ“ጸዛዝሌል፡

ዚይከወሣክ፡ “ሰሳም; ዓቢድይ፡። ቫነኔ፤ ወጽ፡
ዚ“ድይክወውኝክ፡።

ይትፌሥሑ”

2 # ads ጸልእቦ፡ ዘጸምር፡

which was a rendering of rd before

oya.
5 a. 8 reads pዲ“ ወምስሰi YL".
7 A] MSS. prefix 0 against the
parallelism and G.
s Em. from AIHA of all MSS. but cy. cy read AIHA:
2 Em.

with G rijs ueyaእorvms

n bcx read pYLwi
ጸሓፌ፤፡
"5 8-4».

from

9, 8 Oli

Zu

read

0ቢያYi

»/

3ቢት;

a reads ሰላም:
= pcx read sbi
dy omit.
a reads
a-ያ/ ead ወይቤሲኒ፡ ሃኔ ወዴቤሲ፣
"ያያ. መዞ 8 read ሑር

7.
miu, B-e read ቅዋ;
6 ምቅዋም:
« ወምቅዋቸሞመ
5 reads
ቅዱሰን
ያ ቅዷስ፡
5 m reads “JAR;
nag.
g omits. B reads Hho;
1 m reads #30

9 omits.

= Seems corrupt for $0; as G has "iis ys.

5» Prob-

ably corrupt for ARyሰk:i m reads ማሰ;
= ዐu read ሰሳባመ፤ 9, a» aባd በዲበ፡
PEC; against m/w, n. cde/hh/oays add 0" FP before NA; and ay after it.
ዕ% trans. ሰላም; ወዳ."

5g omits.
ኣስመ፡ ዚጺይትፌ".
after ት".

Fm.

J”

before

g/wB omit,

ይከውን;

and add በዷበ፡

ም

after መ

gg yp. m reads BARRY Aስi

7, 8

5 #8. a-# read Pk
which might be construed as the acc.
5 Iu, lB. m reads ቁለ
9 ቀትሪ
0 fh, 8. gu read ACRE

መ, ያ ይርኣዩ
1 m reads CAN
5 mu, /5 read £30
5 c omits next four
words.
#ያ. መሠ read ስረ ወጺሰሳመ፤
9 ምሕረገ፥ ወጺሰሳባም፣፤ 5» 8 ምሕረት
ወጺሰባሳም
5 m omits. g trans. after NAH’.
5 dq omits.
5 g reads ሰላ;
ዓቢዩ
5 m reads Nh; and trans. before OBR:
Omit.
B. H
read in acc. £Zያ read በት
= ስሕተት
nu m, 8B. #Zg/u read "AY: G~a#s

XII. XIII. 4.

ENOX

€yya Tot eXjupgn

99

kai Tog érrty kal Ti ¢yévero atr®.

3, kai T& fDya atirogi1

kerd TOy €yoNygpey, kat era T&y &yioy ai Juépats airog.
3, Kai férrisl
Juny
Ev@X eUXoy@y T@ Kupte 5 Tils eyaxoryvns, TO Barxei TS» aidyvay., Kat
[Boy oi €ypyopov Tog @yiov Tog ueyaxoy! ¢xdXovy be EvéX #, ....,
4. 6 yoauPy

hd

\ኣ

ን

ares

\ኣ

VIN

[ei

መጫ

[ey

ፆ

Fe)

መሓ

[N

Tis Bikatoyvns, Topevou
[oy

kat

ፆ

N

ላ

QGTOXNUTGyrTes Ty otpaygy Toy UXO,
[ey

ጦሓ

ሓ

eine Tots

IN ሓ

é€yonydpots

[ay

Pe

To

[ey

ን

ፆ

)]

oypayog oirtyes
[ey

TO Gyiaua Tis rrdrews Tog aigyos, ueré

\

T@y YUvatkSy

#

\

€lutdyvgnray, Kat rep

[oy

[oy

መሓ

oi viot Tils yiis otogiy,

otires kai aro

5, Kai €Xalgoy favrois yvyvaikas' Gpaytrugy uéyay { karnpayirare
{+§ Tily
ps
Ls
Cs ee
TE
>
PR
Ld
Ls
ቋጥ
ያ
Yi,
8B. Kat\ ovkጋ €rrat
Viv
1 eipllvn
ore
fibers.
6. kai) Tepiኒ Sy
Xaipovzty
TO» Viv air6y, T0v POvoy T&y QGyannr@y atréy GYyroyrat, Kai €mi T] GTexeig
TS» ViQy atr@6y Tevdéovcty Kai Ben0niroyrat eis Tiy aiSva, kai otk gorau arots
eis EXeoy kat eionlwny 5,
XIII. O 8 Eyax r& Acai feiney [Llopeyoy'
t? oyk grrat ou eiplivn.
TotoUty
መሓ

em

ን

Kpiua eye

መሓ

ኣN

ያ

€éilAgey kara

[ey

og

[a

Bilal ee

PO

Ld

ኣ

Si.

%

ሓኣ

3, kal Svoxil kai éprnris

1)

4

rot opk

torat epi Gy €Bevéas ABxudreoy kal epi dyray TOV €pyay T@yv QrefBetay
kal Tis aBkias Kai Tis &aprias, gra VréBetéas rots Gvgosrots,
3. Téré Topevgeis éipnka Taiy avrois, kal abroi dvres éboBgnray, kai
tXaBey

avrovs

Urouwmlluara

rTpguos

kai @ሐo3os.

4. kai Mpeérnray 10 Onws
ey

époTlréas, (ya yéunrau1r 1 ayrois
[4

[ny

iperts,

kai iva

[A

Yaw

2

[ay

aurots

€¢Y% Gyayyg 1
ey

: M5. aire,
* E corrupt
= ¢y Tais Nuépaus.
5 Euxoyeiy used with dat, in Sir, 1, 225
«Add with E ray Ypaiiaréa kai eiroy €uot Ey@x lost through hmt.,
E=
meroulkeray.
5 M5. tampa trare,
Seems corrupt for d@. ey. kar-

li, 12, &c.
eroinay Or

mpayvray. It is most unlikely that we should have here a piece of the orafio recta, E=
kai dp, key. Y@pavirgnray but see note 23, Dp. 32.
7 E = arois which appears right.
¢ A strange construction.
? Corrupt fOr ropeuvgeis sires as is shown by FE and G xiii. 3.
The corruption in G may have originated in the Aram. G = 5NN io corrupt for
JN DIN. Here we may conclude either to a happy emendation of the Ethiopic
translator of G or of the scribe of the Greek MS. used by E or to the existence in the
Aramaic of both forms, the corrupt in the text and the true reading in the margin.
i? E adds ue.

™ MS, yeyoyvrat.,

= MS. ayayyot,

add ምሕረት!

at add it before ወስ".

E = dydye corrupt fOr dvayye.

5 £8. a-# read ንክ

HtoUCn;
# g omits.
5 a. 8 reads ለውሉደ ሰብልኳ፤
7a, ak. B-agilread ፈፈ ft. I.
=u. Other MSS. omit.
read Dረ jw

0

reads YNሰRL:

3 wu reads

s a, G omit.
egmgu. 08

Superscription in £ "30; ሐፈ; #7n: YHnረ:

ስAሰቶተሙ፥

= 6§-a8 trans. before hm; AR against a, a&.

ስኣሰተመ፥
after AOC;

= x ። read ይሹኖመ፥
no omit.
5 gm.

For NA Scsox read

= 8 ድያmያ/u read በክመ፡
gu read R3CTY: 8 AOC:
F

0c trans.

94

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኖኻ፡

XIII ND

ተዝኻረ፡ ስኣለተመ፡ ቅድመ ኣገዚጸ። ሰማይ“
5. ኣስመ፡ “ኣሙንቱሰ፡ ጺዴካሱ።
ኣምይኣዜ፡ ተና7ርሮ፡፡ ወጺያነስጹ፡ ጸዕዴንቲሆመ፡ ውስተ፡ ሰማዶ፡ ኣምጋፍረተ፡ ጸበሳሆመሙመ፡
ዘተኩነኒ።
6. ጸ’ሃ። ጸጻሕፍኩ፡ ትዝካረ፡ ስኣለተመ፡ ወጸስተብፉያ፡፣ በጻንት፡ መንፈሶሙ
ወ“ለሰጸሐዲ፡" ምግበሮመ፡ ወበጻንት፤ ዘዴሰጸሴ፡። ከመ፡ ይዴኩኖመሙ፡። ስርዩች፡። ወኒሐተ።
7. ወ“ሕዊርዩ፡ ነበርኩ ዲፉበ፡ ማያተ “ደጌ በዳነ" ኣንዘ፡፡ ይጻቲ፤ ጳም"ዩየማህ ዐረበ
ጸርሞን፡። ወጸኮበብ፡”" ትችዝካረ፡፤ ስኣለተመ፡፥ ኣስከ;። ደቁቀስኩ።
8. ወናሆ፡። ሕልም”
መጽጸኔ፡ ወራኣያት፡። ደቤዩ፡ ወድቁ” ወርጺክዙ፡ ራት መቐሠፍት፣ (ወመጽእ፡ ቃል፡ ኣገ
ዶብል፡)። ኣንገር፡። ሰውሱደ፡ ሰማይ፣ ወጻዝልፎሙ። =” 9. ወነቂህዩ፡ መጻጻኩ፣ ገቤሆሙመ፡
ወዙሎመ። ጌቡጻን”" ዴይነብፉ፡። ኣንዘ፡ ዴሳሕዉ፡ በ“ጸብልስየጺል፡። ዘሀሰወት፡ ማኣከሰ፡
ሲባኖስ፡ ወ።ሴኒሴር፡። ኣንዘ፡ ግልበቡባን፣፡ ገጾሙ።
10. ወትናገርኩ፡፥ ቅድጃሆመሙ፡። ሹሉ
ራኣያት፡ ዘርዚኩ፡። በንዋም፡;። ወወጠንኩ፥ ኣትናገር፡። ውኣት፤ ቃሳተ፡ ጽድቅ፡ ወኣዝልፍ፡።

ሰትጊሃ።

ሰማድ።

ኣምዓሰም፤

በክመ፡ ጾዘዚ፡ ቅኗስ፡ ወዓቢድ፣፤ በድጻኣኳቲ፡ ራኣይ“

XIV. ዝመጽሐፈ፡”

ዘአኔ፡ ዴኣዜ፡" ኣነኘር፡" በልሰኝ፡። ዘሥጋ፤

ቃሲ፡" ጽፎቅ፣፡ ወዘለፋ፡"

ተወበመንፈስዩ፡"

“ትጊኙሃኽ

ኣለ፡።

5. ይጸ“ ርዚኩ፡" በንዋምዩ፡

ዘወሀበ፡” ዓቢዴ፡። ጸፈ፡።ተ ሰሰብኳ፡

ዴትናገፉ፡። ቦቱ; ወዶለብዉ፡።

በእብ።

3. ከመ፤ ፈጠረ፡ ወወሀበ፡። ለሰብኳ፡ ዴለብጪ፡።

' መ reads ስኣለት፡

ዴኩኖመ፡

ከመ፤

ከመ

2 a, ak.

B~a% read Ji

8 00

0, 8 read AJLRብሔC:
“a7. 9, 8-50 read ሰማ
Bo omit.
Eu. So also
me 0 Save that they omit fN. 8 reads RM; a}E: m adds Rሐhምሞችs
° 9 reads
ችሪግርኘ፡
"7m, 0p read YR
11 Ri
$s Iu, mn. Fm, Bn prefix.
ነ 4-9. 0, 3 read “ብቅቍPተሙ
1" ድ reads ሲጻሰሲ፡ ጽሕዲ ፥ ሰሰጀ፱ 5 ሲሄ.
"ያ
mgt By read HEስAati
= £587 read £m
= y adds YEN: and puts the
words before and after in nom.

m 0, /*B read AYYi
n m prefixes H.

w € omits,

15 a/ቋ read ደንበደን፡

rcad DEY;
ወደቁ
=u.

Su read A;
All other MSS. £ራAt:

boy) እyovca,

5 gu, 8-0. Fm, 0 read AIC:

B-» Aዛሰፎሙ፡

nam, w

margin 4A;
tu በልሲዩሌል፡

5 reads ዴብ;
See note 7, p. 35,

n ጸጌቤኔር፡ » ቤናቤር፡
9, 7 B-% append $.
So also G.

= ያ 9u read "At; 5 ራኣዩ፡
5 mg read
7 Restored in accordance with G wai 3Abey

5

Iu, Nn. Fm read DAHAE

መ reads FAY, (sic).

8-5 TAH

/ adds on

= 9. ድ,8 read ጽብልስያሌል፡
5m.
g/u read ቤጌሴር፡

ጽልእብልበጹል፡
g-5y ቤኔቤር፡

። ሲኔኒር፡
= 5 ኮrefixes 0.
= 9, a add እትናገር፡
“aD.
7 u reads AትSIC:
# m reads “Ei » pAዛAews
»g.

All other MSS. read He;

Z reads HA
9 HA:
5 9 reads YL
5 ወ reads ርዉዎ፤፣
“" 9 adds ርጺጡ፥ ©.
በልሳን;

I

1 9 reads 0.
#90
BI read ዓረበ: Zn, YEA; = 0A;
“Fmg,F Zu, 8-F read ብብ:
” ። reads Aaስoi
=u,

/ omits next five words.

40 9, 9 a read 2AY:

3 Bh reads AE
7 nm reads AYSIC:

These were

VB,

4 gy prefix ©.
» g,Dn a read

afterwards added in the margin.

XIIL. 4 XIV. 3.

ENOX

395

ayrois TO VTOuyvmha Tis épeoTreas éydrtoy Kvyploy Tog otpayot,
ን

ጦN

\ኣ

OUKéTt
ን

€

[4

[a

Byyavrat

#

BEEN
f
4
aT9
airxUvns

ኮ!

Aaxjjlrat,

[4

ie

ovB¢

[nN

kat

epi

Topevgeis
Jy

Béoyrat,

puoveteiu
ላ

Gnes

[ey

avr@y

Tovs

Ly

3

#
1
kaiላ Karekpignray
7.

eis Tv

\

obpayby
ን

\

#
Ly
6. Tére
€ypara
Ee
Tyevudray avr6y

Kat akpdrns.,

7. kai

¢y Ys Ady, ilrws €rriy x

X¥Beéigy

_BUreas 5" Gyeyivarkoy

9

Vnduynua

Pe

2

ኦ)

ኣ

[t

tipers

)

ኣ

Ay

m

én T6y

ERE

Yévwyrat

Ld

N

[MN
kal\ Ts Belrets epi ላ T&y

avry

8. Gru ayroi

[ei

GpOaAuovs

\

UBdrey

é€xdgira

\

[ey
avréy

d

DN,

ሕሞ
€
[4
¥ epi ) @y
Tuapriikevay

@y

ላ

id

Be

X

[Pn
TO UTOuvnmha Tis
€perNrews
ኣ

5)

€Tapau

ንኢ

im

ኣ

Ty

CG

Belréeay

[ay

/

x

avry
3

Pe

€as
ey

4

ckotuilgny.
8, kai (Boy Gyetpot ¢m’ éut 1iAgoy kai Gpdrets én élut €nérnToy,
ላ
[ny
መጦ
[ay
kat Sov Gpdrets Q0yils,
¥ kal IXgey bey Aeyovra* Ein6y sTots
viots
Togfe ovpayog[ey
Frog €XéYEats atroys.,
9. kai €£vmyos yeydueyos Agoy Tbs ayroys, Kai Tdvres
ጫ
H
ላ
Tumlyuévov €xdgnuro revgogvres
[rey LyEBfgekrard 1, ijlrts Soriy
Gy éroy Tog[ey
AuBdyoy kai Sey RD
8, TeptkekaAvuéyot
Tijyv
10, €véntoy bray Kats
[i
ቫ GYuy.
ኃ

oA

2
ያ
Pr
[F
N
ደ
N
ጫጥ
[os
Fy
f
GvlyyetXa
ayrots
das
Tas
Gpiets
As
eigoy
Kara N robsN iyovs,
katYY Mpéduny
Aaእety Toys Xdyovs Ts Btkatoryyns, €A€YXy 70 Tobs €ypnydpovs Tog ovpavoy.
XIV, BiBX0s Adyey Bkatortvns kai €A€YEews €ypnydpey Tév ano Tog

yn

NEN

5

N

TR

EAD

TT

at@yos, KaTd Tily €»ToMIy To0 @ytoy
ጫ

N

NERO

AT

es

airy

epi

A

t

2

#

Se

)

Tog eyakoy €y Tavrn 71] Oparet.
#

ጋ

#

#

ን»

N

3. Eye
mn

#

eigoy kar robs tinyoys oy 015
viv AY €y YA] rapkivn
¥ey TO Tyvetuart
Tog rguards oy, 0 €Bakey 6 eéyas 75 Tots GygpaTous AaXeiy €y avrots Kat
Xyollret KapBias 1#"
3. 6515 gkTtyey Kai EBwkeyi6 €Xéyéagau 17 ¢€yonydpovs
[4

1 E = mepi T@y

dhaprtSy

Sy

3 E gives the right order = Beg,Sy Bvrees ‘Ep.
ire.

SE = tai Aye.

karexpignray.

2 E wrongly

«4 Em. with E from es.

omits.

UR

Since FE = "ABeyian it is not improbable that we have

here a corruption of "AlBetiwmn a town in the Antilibanus, which could be loosely
described as lying between Lebanon and Senir, i.e. Hermon.
There was a play

of words in text,

“The angels were mourning (23%) in Abilene (ih2sak).

phe

O. T. Senir, a name of Hermon (Deut. iii, 9) or of a part of it (Cant. iv. 8).

5 Tras

before évémtoy with £.
wE = xa ENOuE
IR adds nai
MS on
€y TS myebuaTi uoy 6 €Aeokey 6 uéyas eis T) rua.
But see note 52 below.

=a
2 IE the

text i5 right ore must be taken as under the same government as Yen.
FE=vojras
wapBia.
5 Read es with E.
5 Add with E the following words which have been lost
through hmt.: yoety Toys Ndyovs iis Yvorees, kai €ué fxrtrey kai fBoxkey,

1 MS. exxegay gat.

mn omits next word.

0 m appends t.

» dy read በመንፈስ:

See note 52 below.

a Fiu,8. mg read 304%:
5 m8. #gu read NE: It is Lossible that for Ré:
or Ri we should read RZ and read as follows በመንፈ; At: Hoy: 0ቢ#; = ©.
lxxxiv. x confirms this sugeestion. After R&i m adds Hወሀበ:i 00: 2 add Hoyt:
5 m reads &YSIC: 5a add ANA: / prefixes hoi
™ m reads PA:
9,0

read U0;
በልብ

5 m reads ሰብRi

mu add ወሲ;

9 adds Pሲ1k

ግ # adds

36

መጽጠፈ፡

“ቃለ; ጸኣምሮ፡

ዛኛ፡

XIV. 3-8.

ወ’ሲትኒ፡፡ ፈጠረ፡፡ ወወሀበ።፡ ኣዝልፎሙመ፡፡ ለትጊሃቱ፣ ውሱደ፡ ሰማይዶ

4. ጸኔ* ስኣለተክሙመ፡’ ጸሕፍኩ፡ ወበራኣይዩ፡ ከመዝ፡ ያስተርዉ፡" ኣስመ፤ ስጻሰችክሙመ፡
ጺትከወንክመ፡፥ ውስት፤ ሹሱ፡ “መዋዕሰ፡ ዓሲም፡ ወ“ሸነኔ፡ ፍጽምት ሳዕሴክሙመ፡ ወ“ጽዚይክውኝ
ሕሙ”
5. ወ“ጸምይኣቬ፣ ጽትንር፥" “ውስተ *ሰማይ፡። ኣስከ ሹሱ፡ ዓሰም፡" ወውስገ።
ም.ድር፡ ትን7ሪ፡;። ዶኣስርካመ፡ በዙሉ መዋዕሰ፡ ዓለም።
6. ወጻምቅ.ድመ፡ ዝንቱ ርጻሕክመ፡።
ሐኾሰ፡ ውሱ.ፎሕመሙ፡ “ፍቁራን ወጸልብካሙ፡” ተጥራያኒሆሙ፡። ተ ጸሳ፡። ዶወ.ፎቁ፡ ቅ.ፎጃክመ፡
በሰዴፍ።
7. ወስኣለትኸዝመሙመ፡ በኣንቲጸሆሙመ፡። ዚዴክውን፡። ወበጻንቲጸክካመሙ፡። ወ“ጸንትሙ፤፡”
ኣንዘ፡;” ትበኻዩ፡። ወታስተበፉዑ፣ ወ“xትተናገፉ፡።” ወምንት ቃሰ፡ ጳምውስት፣፥ መጽሐፍ
ዘጸጻሐፍኩ፡።

8. ወሊት፣

ድጴውንኒ፡። ወጊ፡

ዴጴውዐበኒ፡" ወፉጺጸት፣ ከዋክብት፡ ወመባርቅት፡ ያፇጕዑኒ፡" ወኒያጽህቁኒ!፡።

1 9 trans.

270 omit.

“ራኣይ፡

ከመዝ:

ጸስተርጸዩኒ፤።

ሪሆሁ፡።

$e adds NA; 2A: RAC:

ይደመናት፡

በራኣይ፡

# » reads ፈMéi and

omits following ©.
sa
# B append kt.
5 a. B reads AHAEas
nm trans. to
end of verse.
71, Fna read AYLYE:
5 w omits, BረFBB prefix @.
I, 8

am read NAለት”.
5 9 reads ስትረAs
0 adds Pei
1 £, ho read Naለት".
5 9 reads A; መዋ0A; # መዋ0ለ; ሰላም፤
።nያ/ 5. Zu read FRY
gu omit.
5 u adds ሰላም; Z adds the dittography from verses 5 and 4: aA:
Yeh;
ውስተ ዙሱ፡ መዋዕሰ፡ ዓሰም፡ ወቫነኔ፣ ፍጽምት፡ ሳባዕሌሴክሙ፡ ወጺይክውገክመ፥
'፡ መ omis.
7 ያያ Bመ reads “JዓርT፥
9, 8 “ተፀርገ።
= "ት0ርY፡
5 9 reads Nyt:
'5 / adds ዩየጋልፍ፤
20 F defective here. See G.
1 ሠ reads YEE;
25 #2 reads
ርክ
5g omits.
3 abpcfFBsIab.
mu, gy» read TCL.
9 MራያiሆFaw

ያ ጥፉያኒሆመ፥

።“ ጥራይነ".

። ጥረትና".

ዕ ጥራያኒሆመሙመ፡ ጥረትና".

1፲ take ትራ" to be

a corruption of YራEPLPaD; = kardhetuua Or KardiXoeroe= Aram. NID,
As this
word means either Kardaeihua Or Svmets we have here an explanation ol the text of G.

The construction in the text Rn

Tr

cannot

be given any intelligible

meaning,
Tt = nec habebitis possessores eorum, whereas by restoring the single lost
letter we get nec habebitis reliquias eorum.
5 008.
mu read AA;
I

omit.
at,

7 መ adds ስከ

trans. before RPh:

m adds YnYi

u omits.

ለዓለመ፤

ዓሰም

5 Iu, Fhon omit the initial © and

/ appends ¥ to AY

and 8-5 c/ append k.

gu read ትY0ht:

Dna omit.

= ss omits,

uw omits.

See

note io, D. 317. The negative should be omitted here and in the next word.

*2mg,d.

Other MSS. add L.

ይጽውዑ

2 adds superscription በaንti ድቤ: ደመና:

ንበ; ርኣዩ ቤት፡ ዘሕኑጽ፡ በጻብ፤፣ በረደ
Sa, am, Ban trans.
7 9 reads RCAtL:
5 gy prefix ©.
Sem. Other MSS. ARው0L
ua, abcdge. gt read "01
mo Fh8In
as 3
ia, gFBSInoab.
aycep read fF.
wu omits next five
words through hmt.
5 Fmg. #8 ROEHL: (4 omits the 1). Either word may be
regarded as a rendering of €fopuigatdy he which

of the Semitic.

See note 13, p. 37.

is here, however, a false rendering

4g omits next four words.

XIV. 3-8.

ENOQX

Toys viobs Tog obpayog.,
)

Kat

2

€y

Fe

Ce

TI] Oparét

oy

4. Ey%
[ey

TovrTo

a

£0

97

Tily €epdrlrw VuSy [T@y GyyéAay] 1 ¢ypay'a,
ፆ

0

_€OetxXn

F:

unikért? B

X

Kat

)

ot

OUTé”

Fp

BV

By

የ

1] €DaTIrts

Vu@ay

Tape

oe

BéXON:, 5. ¥iya
eis Tay obDavay Gval3iiré ¢rt Tdyras Toys aiSvas, kai ¥ ey
ሓ
ሓ
[os
LaANT
i
i
J
ጫ
ሮ
ኃ
[4
\
N
ኘ
[ey
ን
Tois f Seruots VTTis Yifls 5 €poegn Bila ues eis Tdras Tas yeveas ' ro aiSyos,
No]
ኣB
4
Vy
N
5)
[4
fe
[yn
የ
ሓ
3
6. kali (yal pO S royrey (Bre Ty GTOXetay TO» ViSy Uu6y TOy &yannrinOy,
[my

ኣ

[ey

La
Eve
Ld
0
fe
ኦ)
N
ሓ
Sip
Cn
Ld
kaiNiGru okty) ¢rrat
Uuiy
Gunes
9abr@y,
AAG
Terovrat
€vOTtoy
VuGy
€y, axaipa.
A
Cf
\
ጋ መ
3
y
FN
i
CBRE
NN boli
7. kai }] éparnrts Yu@y epi avrQy obk é€rrat ob epi VuSy' TYkat theis
in
i
in
in
[a
ጭ
KXa(oyres10 Kai Bedueyot Kai ily 1 XaXofyres Ty biiua &n9 Tis yoapis 3s
typaya. _ 8. Kai got Xe Gparet’s otras eBeix0il" igoy vepéxat éy 7) Gpdet

ekdXoyy Kai GuiXXat ue ¢@péyovy, kai BtaBpoluat T6y Qrrépoy

Kare TovyBaCoy Kai
1 A gloss.

kat biarpanat ue

egopyBa(dy75 ue, kai iyeiou €y Th 6pdét oy { eéenérardy 14

EF omits.

5 E = kara Tovro.

SE

Or

« E= obk grat Vuty,

JuéDae TOU aigyos Kai 3N koigts
Susp
«p éreyete6n 1 ¢beb Uués
ok kai otk érrat Uuiy,
k
5 FE = kai dr9 roy Uy,
5 For Beruois
The
bk we should probably read Seuiots.
k
and adds eis das

Tas

phrase is found in Lam. iii. 33 PN YON, LXX Seruiovs is. The phrase here means
those confined in the earth.’ For similar phrases see Zech. ix. 11, 12; Wisd. xvii, 2.
There was an obvious paronomasia JON OK, for G as early as Origen’s time had
Seruois. But Origens words (<. Celsaes V. 52) koxditergat Beruois UroBMngéyras éy Y] show
that he could make nothing of Beruois iis Ys. The corruption most probably arose in
the Aramaic Beruois Tils Ys = NYS "IAEYR corrupt for NEN,
E is defective = €y
7 )8.
7 E = upas.
* MS. rept.
» Beer (KRautzsch, Apok. ii, 245) regards this
word as a rendering of NI = T9 tardaoeroy, which, however, the translator rendered
by Swmees. But could Sms be a rendering of Nn?
Since E is here corrupt but
points to kardaetuka (see note 23, D., 36), the original Aramaic was probably ni,
which = taraaeiuiua Or gute,
1 We should expect kai kxatdvrey.
n Em. from
MS. un, which E follows. The corruption of wy into uyls is found in x. 7. If, however,
the negative is original, ui) Xaxoyvres may be corrupt for ul እaxdvres or Aagdyres = ND

haps, which should be taken as the apodosis :;« Ye are not to receive”
5 E = Goats.
5 This word (= perturbabant, and so £) cannot be right. We require a synonym of KaTegrovga(oy.,

NOW égoptigatoy= Heb. Yon.

Jn this context the translator should have

rendered it erdxvyoy, In Aramaic this verb is only found intransitively in this sense, but
this may be an accident.
™ This may be an attempt to render ISR = «caused to fly.
This Aramaic verb is used by Onkelos to render 135) in Num. xi. 31. On the other hand
the LXX gives séeréparey but one MS. égerérarey (as already remarked by Lods ss joc.)
Now if NSN stood in the original, séeréraray may have been an attempted rendering.
But in that case we must attach to it a meaning that cannot be justified in Greek.
This verb is from gxrerdyvvue = «to spread out» but the translator of E apparently

confused it with séerrnoay and derived it from serérauas and ascribed to it an active

98

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛና

XIV. 819.

*ወነፉሰት፣፡ በራኣይ፡
ሇያሰርፉኒ። ወያቕጕኮጵኒ።። ወጸንመጹኒ፡፡
ሳዕለ፡ ውስተ፡ ሰማይዴ።
9. ወስኣዙ፥ ኣስክ፡፡ ኣቁርብ፡፡ ንበ፡ ጥቐም፡ ዘሕንጽት፡ በጸኣባ፤፣ በረድ ወልሰ ኣሰት፡
የዓውዳ። ወ“ወጠ፤’ ያፍርሀኒ።”
10. ወቦጻኩ፡ ውስ፥ ልሰኔ፤ ጻሳት፡ ወቀረብኩ፡፣ ኘበ፡
ቤት ዓቢይ" ዘሣኒጽ፡። በጸጻበኔ። በረደ፡።“ ወ“ጸረፍት፤ ውኣጻቱ፡ ቤ1፡" ከመ፤ ጸፍጺፈ፡
ሰሴዳት፡፡
በጸኣባን፣፡ ዘጻም" በረድ፤፣ ወ“ምድፎፉ፡።
በረድ።
11. ጠፈፉ፤ ከመ
ፉጸተ፡

ክዋክብት፡

ወ“ መባርቅት፤"

ወ"ማኣከሎሙ፡

ኪፉቤን፤።

ዘኣሳት፡

ወሰማዮሙ፡፤

ማይ።
12. ወኣሰኝ፡፥ ዘይነፎ.ድ፡ በጸውደ፤ ጸረፍት፡=” ወውኖሕቱ፡ “ይውዒ፡ በኣሳት።።
13. ወቦኣኩ፡። ውስት፣ ውኣቲቱ፡ ቤት፡ ወ።“።ምመውቅ፡። ከመ፡ ኣሰት፡ ወቁቈሪር፡ ከመ፡ በረፎ፡
ወጺx“ምንተ;።

ፍ70;። ሕይወት”

ጸልቦቱ፡” ውስቴቱ!”

ፍርሃት”

ከደኒ፤ ወረዓ.ፎ፣ ጸጋዘኒ፡።

14. ወ።ኣንዘ፡ ኣትሀወካ፤ ወ“ኣር0.ፎ፡ ወደቁ በገጽየ፡ ወኣጻሬጺ፡ በራኣይ።
15. DSU;
ኻካልኣ፡ ቤት፣ ዘንቢ፡ ኣም“ዝክቲቱ፡። ወሰ
ውሣት፡።። ርቷት፡። በቅድ
ወ“ሕፉጽ፡
በ“ልሰናተ፡። ኣሳት።
16. ወበዙሱ፡ ዴፈደፍደ፣ በስብሐት፡ ወበ“ክብር፡ ወበዕበዶ፣። ጻስከ፡
ጺዴክስል፡

ዜንዎተክመ፡“

በኣንት፡

ስብሐቲሁ”

ወበኣንተ፡

ዕበዬ።*

17.

ወምድፉብስ፤።

ዘ“ኣሰት፡ ወመልዕልቱሁ፡ መባርቅት” ወምርዋፀ፣ ከዋክብት ወጠፈፉፍኒ፣ ኣሰትጎ፣ ዘይነፎ.ፎ።
18. ወንጸርኩ፥ ወርጺኩ፡ ውስቴቲቱ፡ መንበረ፡" ልዑሰ፤” ወ።“ራኣዩ” ከመ፤ ጸስሐት'ያ፡ ወኳበፁ፡
ከመ፡

ፀሕሐዶዴ፡

ዘበርህ፡

ወቃሰ፡

1 g reads መፍ ፍስት

በረ.ፎ፡

OF €ratpoy.

G2 has emilpay.

9, 8 read በኣብ፡
n abcde.

Hh CYL

በኣብ፣
ሰሌዳ፤

።u BፍeUis

19.

ወኣምታሕተ፡”

3 9, / read #N.

#,aread flr.

should be restored after AOA;

7 a9.
ወጠ

ኪፉቤን።”

ዴወፀኳ፡።

3 imu, Ba = KarerrovBatoy

9 AV.

B reads pi",

መንበፉ፡”።

4 a = kai dyilveykdy ue, and

« u adds Hoi

° £ reads ACA:

“8. ደ reads ጸው: »/ t3ውE: 9 fጸውድ፤
7 reads
PH FBSInaB read ECL
mm ያፈርCUL: 9 ያፍርሁL:
29!

mu read 0ቢ&i

= 9 trans. after ei

9,

read

“reads በሕርይድ፤
" a7» 8 read ጸረፍቱ (1፡78) ውጻቱ፤
“a. ay read
<9s7/8 $/።0 a5 ሰሌዳ
7 # reads HAY
8 mf, Be. # omits.

gu read ምድረ፡

< በምድሩ

5 wu reads pብረy;

0 bcu read 0.

Zw, B read “@A
=a-g,n # reads Aረፍli 8-5 RረፍE;
24 Superscription to verss. 13 59d. in £ 30; Cat; መንበረ: AA
read ሞቁ፡

9 ምቅ

5 Fgu.

m reads Yi

uy.

5 e reads iE:
5p8 mu

# acgyt0y YL

Sena

ምገንት፤
27 9. miu, B~n read &335 » +A O73;
28 ms omits. f, BH
prefix © against at.
Sgmu. gt B read OU, 8 omityRA;
mn apa read
ውስቴኝ፡

1 am prefixes ©.

5 g omits.

i Fm omit.

9 u, / read NYE:

a £.

Other MSS.

give the usual form A’#HL

5 # reads DnAAi ©.

so # reads ©.

57 Wr

5 Fina.

01 read PAY;

#5 BIE:

ፀB-In ይ. መፀ read ርሕውት፤፥

/። ርሣወው፥

» ርቶ

ng, PB.

“mg, B-akgn.

gi

smu.

9 Bread ANH

a8n read ©.

mt.
fi

mtu

omit.

*g,eno(v).

gi

B~en 0 read O0£i mu 300i
“g/ aycgeiinas. m reads biወY. 9 ዜhiዎY.
#ዜንወት". ያዕ ዜንወት". »ኃዜንዎተሙ፡
«5 e trans. these two Words.
to m, m read

XIV. 8-19.
ke

kai

|

STiodyi

ENOX
le

divas

kai

399

eiilyveykdy

ke

eis roy

ovpaydy.

9. kat

eicilAgoy uéxpis ilyyura reixovs oikoBouils 5 €y Aigows Xakd(ns Kat YAérats *#
N
ሜጫ
5
\
5
Tup6s KUKXO ayr@y' Kal ijpéayro €xpofgety ke.
10. Kat eirigoy eis ras

YAdrras To0 upds, kai yy
eis oikoy uéyay oikogounluéyoy €y
Agous
XaXdEns 2 kai ot Totxot Tog oikoy @s AUOOTAakes, kai Tara lay €K XeOvos 9,
BEN
/
hs
#
kaiIN Bd
Xtovvkd,Hu 11. kat\ ai€ créyat
@s
BiagpoluatN aTépey
KatNESE)agTpamatsፆ Katኣ
#

ሓ

እd

B

ያ

)]

kerTaky atr@y
N

ን

c

ኣ

ሓ

XepovBiy

fe

Ld

[a

Ld

Typtva,

\

[A

20

ጫጭ

€

IN [i

Kat

ly

ovpayos

ኣ

ን

3

N

\ኣ

ኣ

ary
ን

8

[4

ኮ]

NiO

[lm

Ni

ኦ)

ፆ

tUBep,

[ey

12. Kat Up

ey

ላ

6

pAeyo-

[ey

[4

keyoy KUKA® TO» ToiXxey, Kali gUpat Tupi Kavoevat,
18. eiiAgoy 7 eis roy
ofikoy exeivoy, gepuy 1 es Tip kat WUXPOy @s Xtdy, Kat Tira Tpopils Coils
ovk Nv €y ar pdBos ue €xdXu\ey Kai Tpiuos ue €AalBey.
14, kai ilunly
[ei

ላ

[ey

[Lm

[ey

\ኣ

ጮሌ

[ay

etdueyos kai Tpéuy, kai €réeroy Femi Tpdrandy uov kat? €geypovy éy Th
Gptret thoy, 15, kai iBoy ¥EAANY gvpay Give yuévny KaTéyayr( hoy, kai) § oikos
kei(av Tovroy, kai OXos 10 oikoBouueyos ¢€y YAdrras ups,
16. Kai OXos
\ኣ

[#

ጋ

#

Nw

ይ)

ሓ

i)

ፆ

ey

Btapépoy €y BUén kal €y Tuulj kat €y ueyaxoiyn, Gre

ኣ

Le)

ፆ

ጋ

nN

uy Sivargat ke €ietrety

Vuiv epi Tis Bdéns kai epi Tis ueyaxoyvns atrog.,
17, 7911 €Bapos avrog
L
Ys
ላ
lv Tubs, T8 B¢ Gyérepov aro lay Qrroaat kai BeaBpouai rrépwy, kai 1]
oTéyn atrot ly Tio PpXéyoy,
18. ‘Egedpovy B¢ kal eiBoy 15 gpdyvoy UNIAGy 5,
kai TO eigos aprot rei KpurTNAwvoy, kai # TpoxX6s @s JAiovy Aduroyros 1# kat
ኣ
[A
ሓ
f Spos
Y75 Xepovf3iy.
19, kai Urokdre rof Opdvoy €éeropetovro ToTauoi ups
ኣ..

9

መሓ

iN

ጫፍ

meaning, i.e. ‘to cause to fly. The same wrong meaning is attached to égerérare
by the Ethiopic translator of Prov, xiii. 16. On the whole I am inclined to regard
égereraray here as a corruption of €feréparay, as Lods suggests,
The idea seems
to be derived from Num. Xi. 31 veka

#éfINgey rapd kvpioy ka €feréparey Qproyouilrpay.

i E = rareorovgatow, or possibly gratpoy.
5 E, = oikogounuéyou.

‘ MS. yerans.

5 E wrongly trans. into next clause.

° = 1a "35% ([sa. Xxx. 30).

5 E = €y እigore

Tots €k Xdvos.
' E prefixes ai,
*s E = rov®). These words are frequently confused:
cf. Gen. xlix,. 20. It is difficult to decide which is original. rpopy] may be right. On the
other hand rpv®s is used of Sheol in Sir. XiVv. 16 oe €rrey éy digou énrioae Tpvpilv (N3

ጋህ wpa).

Cf. also Erubin 84.

? Added from E.

0 Seems corrupt.

ives good sense = GAAos oikos ei(ay Totroy Kai OX] i) gvpa aro

kai.

G8 appears to be a dislocated form of E.

emg

of E = UyenAos.

RE

E which

Syveoyuéwm Karéyayvri ou

kal:

5 E adds és air&.

Ei = TpoxSs atroD os jjAtos dure,

The expression goes

back to Dan. vi, 9 Pኃኝግ ነኝ "nBBDS = TDoxoi atroy Tip katgueyoy,
The text of E, is
preferable as to sense.
® Corrupt for Spares. E seems to have had opos before it

and emended it into Srds (from SY) ‘the voice.

ወምድርበ፡

“a, 8 omits.

# a-g(5). 9, 3 read መብረ:

9 reads መንበር:

= /u, 8. መያ read NAAN
1 Freads NE:
5 mg.
2,8 read @Ai
Sao.
BoB read ወaመትሕች:
5 9 reads YC:
The suftix in Qs = the
Greek art. B adds 0;
5 mg/u, BL
reads OBA: (sic) // £ወፀ:;

40

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

ጸፍሳገ፡ ኣሰት፥ ዘይነድድ፡ ወጺይክል፡ ርጻዩ።፡
ወዓጽፉሰ፡ ዘዶበርህ፡ ኣምፀሕይ፡ ወይጸዓዱ፤
“ወጸ

XIV OVEN

20. ወ"ዓቢዶ፡፡ ስብሐት፥ ዶነብር፡ ሳዕሌሆ፡
ኣም።“ዙሱ፡፡ በረድ
21. ወዚይዴኻል፡፣

መኒጀ፡። ጸመሳባኣሕት";፡ በpጽ፤ ወርጳዩ፡' ፲፭; *ሰክቡር፡ ወስቡሕ፡፡ ወጺዴሕል፡"፡ ወጺ“መፉሃ፡

ዘሠጋ፡ ይርጸድ፡ ኪያሁ።

25. ኣሰት፡" ዘደኒፎደ፡ በጸውዲ'፡ ወ“ጻሰት፡ ዓቢድዴ፡። ይቀውም

ቐድሆሁ፡ ወጸልቦ፡ ዘዴቁርብ፡ ንቤሆ፡ ኣምጻኣሰ፤ ጸውዲዷ፤ ትኣልፊተ፡" ተኣልፊት፡” ቅፎሆ፡
ተወውልኣቱ፡ ጴይፈቅዶፎ፡ ወውኣጻቱሰ፡ ምሕርተ።።
23. “ወቐድሰት፡ ቅዱሰን; ኣሰ፡ ዴይቁርበ፡
ኃጋቤሆሁ፡ ጺዴይርሣቁ፣፡ ሴሲጊ፡። ወጺየጸትቱ፡። ጻምኔሆሁ።
24. ወጸ፤፡ ሀሰወውኩ፡፥ ኣስከ፤ ዝንቱ
ደበ; ገጸየ፤ ተፃልእባቤተ፡። ኣን ጻርዕፎ;።“ ወጻኘዚኣ፣፡ በጸፉሆሁ፡። ጸውዕዐ፤ኒ፡ ወዴደቤሲኒ፡ ቅረብ
ዝዩ:

ሃኖክ፡

ወለቁልዩ፡

ቱቅዱስ።ቱ።

25,

.... ወጸንመጸኒ፡

ወጸጽቅረበኒ፤

ኣስከ”

"ኖግሣች፤

ወጸንሰ፡ ፲ገጽዩ; ታሕች፤ ተጻኔጽር።፥”
XV, ወጸውምእኒ፡” ወይቤሰሲኒ፡ ወሰቃዙ፡። ሰማዕኩ ።
ጺትፍራህ፡። ሃሄኖክ፡ ብኣጻሲ፡ ጻደቅ፡ ወጻሓፈፌ፡ ጽፎቅ፤፣
ቅረብ፡ ዝዩ፡። ወስማዕ፡ ቃልዩ።
2. ወሑር በሙ “ሲት ሰማዴ;። ሓኣሰ፡ ፈነዉካ;። ትስጸል፡ በጻንቲጸሆመ፡ ጸንተመሙ፡
መፍትመ፡ ችስጸሱ፡ በኣጻንተ፡ ሰብኳጻ፡ ወጸኮ፡;።” በሰብኳ፤ በጻንፒቲጸክሙ።
3. በጻንት፤ ምንት
ኃ.ደገመሙ፡፥ ስሰማዩ፡ “ልአዑሰ፡ ወቅዱሰ፡" ዘለዓንሰም፡ ወ“ምስለሰ፡ ጸንስት፡ ሰከብክመ፡ ወምስለ
1 £ reads RAT:

rad ርጳዮች፣
‘h8.

2/5,

Al] other MSS. “At

/። ርጺዩ፡ » ርጻዮን፡

mou read Aኻሱ

bmt.

275, By.

1 g reads 'T&;

ta, yp,

#5 ly, omit.

ay read መላ”.

።u Probably corrupt for በnAC:

9, B-cy»y ዴል

reads in acc.), ak oy.

So m, but prefixes ©.

7 B trans.

0 mg, g-e0.

wu reads CA
ወስብሐት;

# Bcya

5 wu prefixes H.

Hu, eo (v) read RAY

9, B-agy

s Jn omit.

Sq omits next seven words through

»ggtnn.

Zmnu read ወጺድNሱi
በጸውደ

$m, Irak,

#8-y read 0ቢf;

mn

as in G.

omit.

5 a (save that-#

B~a kn oy read AA: AY
b adds Aሰት

1 SOF

CA
Ry oy,

1 # reads

5 9 reads RAላፍ ©.

gu save that gu add 0 at end of

ወውጸ'E; and 9 reads Mei This may be simply a corruption of PውREሰN; RYE
Pei of mp 8 (save that mh read PMCS), which, if we emend FPNeéi into avneo;
==

Sir. Xlii. 21 ovgé Tporefenlen ovgevés vuBovkoy = a5

255 ]'ገኝ ND.

Ttis

probable

that E and G (= kai as Xdyos atrog €pyov) are both defective and complementary.
At all events both clauses seem to have been before the author of Secrets of Enoch,

XXXii1. 3 ‘My wisdom is my counsellor, and my word is reality

a read ቅድስት፣ ቅዷ". /, 8 ቅፎስተ፣ ወቐቅዱሳን፤
e nu read መዓNAY:
5 = TepiBእnua.

The

oh".

4 ያ. m8

™# reads JAE:

question then arises which

Dan. Vii. 117 €gauBiny

kai Time

au.

read ወጺድትNትቱ፡

5 "“ይጸትቱ፡

But the text is corrupt for PAH:

is right, G or £2

The former seems

eri npdrendy kov (1 heod.).

The

= “ሐት

= epgeBAnuévos.
same

found in the Secrets of Enoch, xxi. 3 ‘1 was afraid and fell on my face.

compares Luke xxiv. 5.

0 B reads ACAE: PAJOC;

ጻር0ዕደ፡

25 = gytoy corrupt (7) for éikovroy as in G.

7 5 omits.

NEU),

= /።, 8 ። add ወጺ(ወያ»ደ/። ዕነመዓልት፡

right: ct.
clauses

are

Lods well

(5) add AOC:

after

Here E is

XIV. IOXV. 3.

ENOX

41

@Xeydueyou , kai obk €Bvvdrgny iBeiy.
20, kai 1] Bdéa 3) ueydn exdgnro én
aur" T9 TepulgdAatov airog [es eigos]®* Aiov Aaunpdrépov kai Aevxdrepoy
t
Le
\
»
Hr
=
y
Pi
[RS
N
PH
Tals Xtevos.
21, Kat Ovk €QvyarTo Tas @yyéNos TapéNgety
(eis Toy oikoy
ላ
nN
ሓ
Tovroy 1 kai (Beiy T9 Tpdreroy arog ¥ Bud TO €yrtuoy kai ¢vboéoy 3, kai opt
m

ላ

€gvyaro Tira épé iBeiy air6y.,
22, T9 mip PXeydueyoy KikXG’ kai Ep béya
#
ጋ =
E
(€
ጋ
iN
DOERR
0
e
#
Taper rite
are,
kaiDEES
ovgeis €yyiCet
air
(76)
* KOKA, uupiat
uptdBes
éoTJjkarty
)] ፆ
)
[ey
=
ላ
[e
[6
ን
[ey
Ld
B
N
);
el
[el
cvoTtov atrots
kal Tas AGyos abrog éDyoy.
23. Kai oi Gyo T@y
ayyéAay 5 ot €yyiCovres airy ovk GToXeopogrty vukr6s otirée dpiravra arog.
ላ
ላ
24. Kaye Juny es Tovroy én npdrardy oy BeBAMuéyos 7 kai Tpéuey, kai 6
ፆ
IN
ያ
2
EN
oi
#
ጭ
€
fc
KUptos TO Tduart abrog €éKdXéréyያ ue Kat i einéy
uot LlpdreNge
age,
“Eyéx,
kaiኣ
T0y AGYoy oy fikovzoy $.
25. (kai TpoeAgéy uot eis T6y dy(oy ilyetpéy el
kat €oTleéy le kai Tporilyayéy ue expt Tis gvpas’ ¢y% B% T9 npdrendy oy
ኦ)

[4

6

€

ግ

ih:

ን

መሓ

})

ግ

መሓ

\ኣ

Ld

ን

ፆ

ን

[el

Kare ékvpoy.
XV. Kai Qroxpugeis einéy uot [0 Giygpenos 6 &Angwds, ygparos ils
\
Po
im
=
a
GMnlgeias 6 ypauuareys]? Kai Tis bovis arog ilkovra’ ui ቁoBngys, ‘Evéx,
dvgpworos &AMOgys kai ypakuluareys Tis GAngeias" pdreéxge @Be, Kai Tis paviis

hoy Gikovroy.,
ሩ

Vas

Ld

3. Topeygre 70 kai’0 eins 11 Tots Téuariy Ze . . , ."Epeorjiraes
);

መ

€Qet Tept Tay

ን

[4

ay0paTey,

ላ

N

ኣ

Kat ull Tovs

QTeAireTée Toy obpayby Toy UNA»

a

#

dygporovs

epi

Ny

Ie

En

ኣ

Vu6y.

ዞ

3. 6d TU

TOv dytoy Tog aiéyos, kat er TOy Yvyatky
[ey

ip

Fe

ላ

[ey

መጦ

1 Better read paeyouévoy with FE: cf. Dan. vii. io.
2 Bracketed as an interpola
tion.
5 See note 12, D. 40.
“ Tey Supplied from E£. So Diels and Flemming.
Kuk Cannot be connected with the next clause owing to the words éyeortoy aro.
2 See Slav. En. Xxxiii, 45 Ps. cxv. 3.

E = ove rpoggeirat otBeutge ruvuBouእis.

It is

probable that this clause, or some equivalent, is lost in G. See note 21, D. 40,
5 E = dyioy.
7 E = repiBanua which is corrupt. Enoch is prostrate on his face:
See note 25, D., 40.
5 E = Gytov corrupt.
° Bracketed as an interpolation.
They occur in their correct form and place two lines later. If they are in any sense
authentic the second ivgpeoros must be regarded as an intrusion.
1 SE pans,
u E adds roie éypnyépots ro ogpayog.
through hmt.: speorfioat repi ayr®y.

5 Add

with

E the following words

lost

defective,

G supplies the lacuna kai Tporeእg@y oe ei Ty dyioy jyetpéy ue.

5 w reads

30;

m Untranslatable:

Treads

ወጸን.

= Em.

#, B read ስማ0i
7 CG omits.

Rup.

corrupt possibly for AR}: = G kv@oy.

with G wai Tis ovis

= ae prefix.
S/uB-D.

atroy from

» dreads Wt:

m reads ፈihi

Fm, BcFhopsab read Rhi

Yh:

በ2t;

£94.

w omits.

mi, Bread DdrC

ss ih:

» 9 reads AA: ወዲስ:
G

Smo.

5 fu, ade

" m omits.

435

መጽሐፈ፡

ህኛኻ፡

RN 0

ጸዋል
ሰብጻ፡ ረኩስካመ፥ ወነሣኣካመ“። ሲክኻመ፡፥ ጸንስተ፡ ወ’ከመ፡ ውሱደ፡ ምድር
ገበርክመ፡ ወወሲፎካመ፡፥ ውሱደ፡፣ ረዓዴት፡።’
4. ወጸንትመሙሰ፡ “ቅዱሰን; መንፈሳዊያን
ሕሐያዋ፤፡፣ ሕይወት ዘሲ'ዓሰም፡ ተበደበ፡፥" ጸንስት፡ ረኰስክመ፡ ወበ“ ደመ፤ ሠጋ፡ ጸውለፎሕሙ፡
ወተበቢደመ፡ተ። ሰብኣ፤ ፈተትውመ፡ ወገበርክመ፡ ከመ ኣሙንቲቱ፡ ዶገብሩፉ፡። ሥጋ; ወደመ፤።
ኣሲ; ኣመንቲ “ይመውቱ ወ'ዴትሐሕጐኮሉ፡።”
5. በኣንተዝ፡። ወሀብክዎመ፡" ጸንስቲ.፡”
ከመ፡ ዴዝርሉ፡ ሳዕሴሆን፡ ወድደትወሰዱ፡። ውሱደ፡። በሳዕሴሆንኝ፡ “ከመ፤ ከሣማሆ፥።” ዚዴንችን፡።
ፃብር፡ ተበሳዕሌሆኝ;። + በጁበ፡ ም.ድር።

6. ወጸንችትመሙሰ፡ ቁዳሚ፡።፡ ከንክመ፡፥ መንፈሳዊ;

ሕያኛኞ፤። ሕይወት” ዘሰዓሰም፡ ዘ" ድመው ሰ"ዙሰ፡ ትውልደ ዓለም። ፣. ወበጻንትዝሽ፡።
ጺ'ረሰይኩ፥
ሰካመ፡፥ ጸንስቲያ፡። ኣጻስመ፡፣ መንፈሳሰዊያ፤፡። ሰማዴ፡። “ውስት፡ ሰማይ
መሓ.ፎሪሆሙ፡፡
5. ወይጻዜኒ፡ ረፃዴኝ፡ “ኣሰ; ትወልዲ; ለመና ፍስ” ወ“"ሥጋ፡ መንፈሳት"
ኣኩያ፤።

ዶሰመይደ፡።

9. ወ“ገፍሰት፡።

በኗሄበ፡

ልኩያን፤፡

ም.ፎር፡

ወጽዙ፡።

ወ“ውስት፡

ም.ፎር፡።

ኣምሥጋሆሙ፡

ይክውን፡

ኣስመ፡

መሓድሪሆመሙ።፤።

ተኣመልዕልት፡”"

ተፈጥ

(ወ።"አምመቅዱዲሰኝ ትጉሃኽ ኮኔ” ቁዳሚተመሙ፡። ወ“ቁቀዳሚ፡። መሰረት;። “መንፈሰስ፡ አኩና፡።
' a reads NዋA.E:
20,
ረ0ይt;
e3ይYi
sgn
"pያን፤ ቅዱሰን፤ 8 "ውያን ቅዱ".

/Omit:
"5% Omits,
4 2 omits.
2 # reads
So / save that for “PY; it reads “EY: 9 reads
7 # a(»yy read hያዋY:
5 ድ reads ድወት

2# reads H.
0 Corrupt for api
G éy rg aiuar.
qf reads aw
REN
the corruption underlying this phrase see note 4, bp. 43.
* 9 reads £30; ie omits
together with next four words.
m prefixes H.
Ba reals EI
Py
read A
7a iB. 7 Bh read ድID.
sa-gu, #, HB prefix ©.

9 reads በኣንY; H.

» g reads Ups

= 2.

Other MSS. read ANY;

appl, Zmgu read RYOAE:
For this rare active use of this verb see Gen. Xxx. 3.
5 gu. mtg read hE;
5 g omits, together with next three words, ms omits
next five words.
4% Fy, SO # save that it prefixes ©, and wu save that for YY:

it reads £IY7i

5 reads ይችI0C:

5 Fu.

for Wt: Navi = my airois as Flemming

after hY.
ወሐድወጊ፡

Other MSS. omit.

suggests.

Fm. gu read “py
2B read fH
» m reads ©.
1 BBox,y read 0.

Smiu, ade,

go FBRInop(»\y,ay read 0A:

Agim, agek

g#u, bcFhlnox ab read ANY:

B-» ውያጌሰ፡
mx omits,

» trans.

25 me omits.
5» F reads
5 ፀ reads ትውልፎ፤ ዘሰ.

Dc (wv)¥ D(x omis)በaንYi YE:
»ag.

(») ለመን"
5 a. Bomits.
YF.
» Fm.fromg AመSé&hስti £ reads ምሰ:

gr Omit
ug. miu, 8 read ና&Nስli
read A];
oy add CAH © before Ay;

May be corrupt

5 w# reads PAB;

9 reads መiፈሰዊያy;

m,FPl8 read AEP
Other M55. aምፃፍስY;

5 ወመናፍስYi
“5,5, Fmnornu
Seu. Other MSS. read ሰots

X trans. before mY.
1 g reads Df.
5 mm reads PEéPs
“gu. mp
read AEP;
Tb B-gnoya.
mu, dnoy,a read HEሰl:i
9 ነፍስ
5s a prefixes ©. u,n add AD.EéPa; ©, but s obelizes.
B= dT) Ty dyorépey

where dyeorépey is corrupt for dvgporey as in Gs. 9 reads AምOAY
with G.
fF reads hi
= 9 prefixes A. n reads ቀደ

hoi ቁዳi

nu reads PRI

5 mu read mpሠeti

0 Added
= m adds
° mrB-no0b. 2 read

XY. 3-0,

ENOX

43

€kovui]0nré kai era T&y gvyaTépay Ty Qygpéney éutdvgnre Kai eXd3ere éaurois

yvvatkasi dep vio Tils Yis €Toulrarée kal gyevmlarée €avrois [rékva]=
FN
Ls
SEAS
nሓ
5
tl
Le
4
3
[aN
FYE
5
vioys
Yiyavras.
4. katN Yheis
ire
@ytot
katN Tyeyua(ra)
2 CSyra
aidvta’
€yጋ
[ay

[a

mN

TS) aiuaTt

ሓ

nN

T6y

YuyaikQy

[mn

4

[Ay

€lutdygnré, kati) €y aiuart apkos éyeymirarée kai) 1 ¢y

aikaTt Gy0pOney énegvulrareé «, (kai €érouiraTé) Kags kai atroi Totogrty Fdpka
ly
ey
ኦአ)
#
ግ
#
መሓ
bd
ን
ሓ
kat\ aikas
oirtyés
GTogwlkovry
Kaiላ QGTOAAvyra.
5, BuN roiro
¢Baka
ayrots
OnAeias, iva rephaTtrovrwy 2 eis ars kai Téxyrovrty €y ayrats 0Tékya ofiras,
iya i] €KXeiTI]? atroisg5 TEy €pyoy én Tis Yils. 6. Vueis BE vmlpxere vetua(Ta)?
ey

ኦ)

J

ጋ

i

4

\

2]

ያ

\N

ላ

ን

\

[ei

[4

(Svra aiayta Kai 10 ovk GTogwmlrkovra eis das Ts yevedis To aigyos,
7. kat
Bia Toro ok enoinra éy tuiy OnXeias’ Ta 11 Tyeya(Ta) ? Tog oypayog, €y Ty
ovpay® 3] Kkaroikncts ory.
ሓ

ላ

8

G8

B. kai boy oi Yiyayres oi yeyvngeyT€S GT0 TOV TyevudrTay Kai FapkOs Tye
katrTa) firxvpet’s (KAngjovrat)5 €rt
Tis Ys kal €» Thy] ] karoikncts bry
€oTat.,
9. TyeialTay Tovnpé €£5iX00y

B. Kal yy oi yiyavres ot yevwmgéyres &n9 Tyevudray kai apkis Tye
kara Tovmpé enti Tis Yiis KaAérovrty
ayroys 15, rt 3] Karoixnrts abr6y €rrat
ent Tis Ye.
9. Tyeiuara Tomo

Qn6 Tog éuaros ary, Btért &n9 Ty

|Eroyrat, T6 TyveiuaTal €eé£eAnXvgdra &T8
Tog duaros [Tis apkos | avr@y, Bugre
1
ኣ
[AN
2)
#
3
[4
እ
ው)
መሓ
i cE iy
SEY i i TOV
Gy(ey TO» €yYpnyOpey 1] GPX] Ti}s Krirees
3
SE
¢
3
atr@v Kai @DXil QeueXiov’ Tyetkara

T Qyeorépay
V1 €yéyovro, Kai €K T6y Gyioy
eyoyépey

3} SOX) ris

krireas

airy

3kkai oxi)
geuéAioy1s'¥Tyeiuara
nyey
OX] OeueXioy
Toympé )

1 E adds ai.

2 Bracketed as a dittoaraphic rendering.

5 Ei = mveuuartoi.

cregvuilare cannot be constructed with €y aiuart Gvgpeorey unless it represents some

Semitic idiom as 3 Nay.

If it could, it would mean bloodthirstiness, an idea quite

foreign to the context. The error appears to lie in €y aiuart dvgpeorey. This = 13
N3 which may be corrupt (2) for N23 339 = Srrep vioi rev dvgpereoy, Cf preceding
Verse rep vio Tis Yiis éromrare.
Mr. Cowley suggests a confusion of DIS ‘ bloody
and DIS ‘man.
Next the object of émegvuijlare may be ipa kai aiua. In that
case they should be placed immediately after sregvuiirare. But it is better to add xai
eromzare after ereguvuijare with FE.

cregvwilrare,

kai erouilrare Kags

5 MS. avrots.

7 MS, exaetret,

EF prefixes Bedre.
5 Added with £.

as in Gs,

Thus the restored text = tai rep

Kai airoi rotogrey dpkas KT,

3 E = gy agrais.

3 E = ryevuarid.

5 May be corrupt for xanpd:
Gs has kayérovty

agrovs.

see Yer. 11.

1s So also FE.

» The phrase is possibly a dittography.

መንፈሰ ጳኩይ፤

Ahi

9 መንፈስ፡ ኣዙድይ፤

Corrupt for dvgpeorey

In Aram. we may

15 See note 13 above.

። መንፈስ፡ ኣኩያን፤

7 omits next five words through hmt.

Pi

E Gs = romp.

Spx) iis #rirees = noi» RJ

which could easily be corrupted into NገONIS “ግ = Spx} geeእiov.
suppose RrhH2, WN corrupted into NHio» ግ.

vioi Ty dviperey

? MS, Frepuarifovzey.

። መጦንፈሰ፡ ኣኩያሄ

• 5 መናፍስተ

44

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

XV 0 XVII

ይካው፤' በደበ፡ ምድር፡ ወመንፈሰ። ኣኩ

ይዴሰመዶዴ።፡

|[10. መንፈሰሳተ። ሰማይ “ውስ

ሰማይ;

ይዴከውን፡’

መጋ.ፎሪሆመ፡።

ወመንፈሰተ፡’

ምድር፡

ዘገፕወልደ፡"

በኗበ፤

ምድር

ውስተ፡ ም.ፎር፡ መጋፎሪሆሙ።"]
ዶገፍፁ፡ ወያማስኒ፡"“ ወይወ.ፎቁ፡

11. ወመኘንፈሰ፡ ረፀዐዴጓ“ኒ። ተደመናጌ፡።ተ ልጻለ፡
ወይትበጸሰ፡” ወድደደቅቁ፡'፡ ሄበ፡ ምፎር፡ ወጋዘ፤፡"
ዶገብሩ፡ ወጺምንተ፤ኒ፡። ዘፎበልዑ፡" ኣሰ; ወ ድጸምጵ፡ ወ“ ፎትፀቁፉ።።
15. ወ“ይትገሥልጵ፡

ኣሎንቱ፡። ነፍሳት” ዷበ፣፡ ውሱደ፡ ሰብሣ፣ ወ“ኗበ፡” ጸንስት፡ ኣስመ፡ ወፀጹ፡። (ጸምኔሆመ።)”
XVI. ኣመዋዕሰሲ፡።” ቁቀችል፡ ወሙስሪ፣ ወሞቱ” ረዓዴትኒ፡። “ጻንት፡ በ: ወፀጸ፡። መናፍስት”
ኣምነፍሰተ፡። ሥጋሆመ፡።

ዕሰተ፡ ተፍጻሜት"

ሲይኩን፡;።

ቫሹነኔ፡።

12 reads Li

ዘ“ያማስጌ፡።

ፀቢይዴ፡።

ጸመ፡።

ዘኣጻኳንበሰ፡ ቫነኔ፤ ከማሆሁ፡ ያማስኒ፡።” ኣስከክ፡

ዓሰም፡

a reaqs pመንፈስi

ዐፀቧዶ፡።

ይትፌጸም”

ጻምትችሃን፡

#0 (5) ,a5. All other MSS. read AY;

1 Fgu. mt, 8 read Pሰot
2 2. mu read mፍé&NY:i 9/8 pS.
5 0 omits.
7 m reads Ahk: and trans. before ውስi
su. 9 reads ግሮ
Other MSS.
ማሣደሪሆሙመ።
2 e/u. Other MSS. read መé&:hስY;
10 a. 8 reads Ai YAS
ugu. mtl8 read MAEé. 9 wIEé.
ia, afnoy. B~aRnoy omit.
» See
note 3 on Greek text. 9 reads SY;
11 0. mu read DR.
#8 Ro.
¥ trans. this word and the next after £Y0" and adds ME; in their place.
vag,
B~ae. g,ae read ወዴት".
5 mFu, BBnx.
# reads ደደቁቁ:
9 ይወድቁ
B-9B።x ወያደቅቁ፡

# ን];
1 m, Byx.

17 == Tpdovs.,

See note 5, D. 45.

35 = Tporktimrovra.

Fm. by Dillmann from REY;

u, 0 read RYO;

3 miu.

ሠ እሎን

ድu read 1ፍሰች፣፤

5 መይB.

read XK;

of ag, Bo.

g reads ጺዴትዓፃወቅ፡

Arm,

8, # reads AAንE:

20, #8 read DA.

9 ነፍስነ

5 Added in accordance with G.

B-I7 read Roi መዋOA;
=

15 m, a dy read “IY

5 miu, 8. Fg read HEA);
20 m prefixes DA. wu reads A;
All other MISS. read A, but G ai BSySvra supports our text.

/ በዋ”.

unde, a free rendering of d® Sy.

5 na omit.

% 0g reads DfeE;
Bru.

IPE

5 Em. from 9 AዋOA

ag,

u wu reads ራ0RYE:

Other MSS. read OB

a

(save

that # puts in acc.) m, efos,aይ. g,y» read መiፈስi /#, B-/0y» መንፈሰትi
=» Em.
from AምiፍሰትYi of eny. £ reads Aምiፍስትi m omits. 9 reads መናፍስት: ©.
1 ኣመፍፍስት፡ መናፍስተ ኣከድ፤ ድሰመዩ፣ ። ኣም. 5-።» አምነፍስት፡
= 9 prefixes H.
s7 u reads ሰኣኩ.ን፡
5 Em. from ዴማስ;
5 Em. from Roy” of a=, 8. wu reads
Hዘድማ.
gሃu, B-bcgn. Zn read YAY
mn ፍጻ"
bcgxa read WH:
+ Restored in accordance with G. Observe the reading of bcdgx,a in last note,
which supports this restoration.
= a. 8 reads 0ይ;
* Fm. fromAaምi
“miu,

Bua.

gna omit.

5 ሆu read ይት".

5 Ei = myeiuara mowmpi €govrat éri Tis Yils kai TyevuaTa rovnpa «Anilrerat.

= TS

verse is merely a repetition of phrases in verses 7, 8. Gs rightly omits.
3 So also
FE = h35y. Gs has veugueva, which in the sense of ‘laying waste’ may = By which

XV XV,

ENOX

45

[Ie

erat.1.

KAO

(G8

_[10, Tyeiua(ra) ovpavog,

€y T9 ovpayy1] KaTotkcts atray ¢rrat'
kai TQ Tyeylkara ¢ri Tils Yi Ta yeyvnevra, éni Tis Yiis 3] Karoiknrts abréy
Li
9
ፆ
[Pe
trai.
] 11, Kai\ TaN Tyetiuara
TSy
Ytyavreoy TvepekasV5 agikotyra, &payt-

Tope

ent Tils Yils €rovrau 1,

11.78

TyevwaTa TOV YtydvTey veudueya, @Bt=
Kovvra, dgpayicovra, €uTinroyra
Kat

FvuTaNaiovra Kai Binrogvra ¢ri ils
Yils kat Bpduovs rotoyra, kai Bey
écgioyra, (GAN érerogvra
113 [kai @bd-

(ovrTa Kat €»TriTTOyTa Kai UyTaNaiOyTa

Ciara TotovyTa | Kat

kat

KOnToyTa.
13, kal €£ayarTilovrat Tg
Tyevliara €ei Toys vioys TOy Gvgpé ney
kai £76 YuyatkOy 15, BT €€ atréy €éeAAVgart, XVI. kai &T9 Juépas |atpog]
pays Kat aneAeias kat gayaroy Ty
Ytyévray 1[NacpnAeiu, ot ie Xvpot Tis Yiis,
[
3
TB
ፆ
ote keyakot
gyoharrTot]
*5 T@% Tyeiuara
T8N
€kTopevoueya &n9 Tis WvXils avr@y,

[ey

\

vypinrovra

ኣ

ኣ

én

Tils Ys

[nyey-

4

[i

[ay

t

fe

\

bara FKApé Ytyéyray] < Kat Bpguoys
TotoUyTa Kat kn Bey ccrgiovra, (4A
Qrrogvra1 5 kai BrSyra kai Tporkd[ey

B

ላ

TTOVTa 1, 13, Kai €Eavarilret Tafra (T8)

Tyeyua(Ta) s eis Toys yioys TOv dvgbeToy kai #TOy Yuvavky 9, Gru ééeAnAygarty (ar atrév', XVI. &an9 ijluépas
Fpayiis kal GreoXeias kat gayaroy0,
2 TENET
H
h
ኮ
ap
By
TaAR Tyvevuara
éxTopevgueya
€k)
ፆ

8

ጎ

AN

EN

[oy

Ts

VWvxiis

N

ኮ)

A

)]

Tis

apk6s

bray

é€rrat

114

ፆ

\

[a

ን

\

ፆ

2)

OV OyTa Kat DOF =

ኣ hy

ፆ

%

[ey

ን

ኣ

fe

ላ

[a

ኣ

ሆ

[em

ን

Ley

[@s éx] Tis rapkSs €rovrat gpayiCovra
Xopis Kpirees" otras &payirovert éXpts
Juépas Tis Texetérews, €es ils Kplrews
ሩ

2)

ሓጫ

\ኣ

Ls

24

ፆ

#
ያ
e
[id
r)
#
Qapayicovra
Xepis\ Kpireas"
otras
apayi-

/
iy
[4
Fovrty LexXDtS
TIuepas
Texetaréas,

NN
TNS

was corrupted into M35. Or veudteva may in the sense of « pasturing be a rendering
of hyገ, which being a corruption of yy (so Beer) was itself corrupted into 33y
= vepbeaas, Bouriant followed by Flemming takes vepsaas to be a corruption of
Napnaeiu.
But veudueva 15 against this,
“A gloss. GsE omit.
5 E, = Tpduovs.
° So also Gs: E omits, It may be a doublet of ungsy érgiovra. If it belongs to the

original text it may be a mis-rendering of 3yገ = ‘to hunger, and should be replaced
by rewoyra, Or better Atheorrovras

doereiy in the sense of an involuntary fast would be

unusual. Beer quotes Wellhausen, Rese Aray. JHesgenfhums?, 149 sd., to the effect
that the Jinns suffer from a devouring hunger and yet cannot eat.
Ei corrupt =
LP!
aopaTas
See D. 44, note 232.
5 M5. wronsly trans. before kai €Eavarriet.
=
1 Add réy Yeydvrew with GsE., It is required by ab’ Sy.
rag
eis Tas ‘Yuvaikas.
av must be taken with €k Tis WuXIs Tis apeos afiray., It is the Semitic idiom VOD '1
hnገb3 = “from the souls of whose flesh”
= Add with Gs E myevhara rowmpa «AnOrerat.

See note 1.
15 See note 6 above.
These words though not found in Gs or F
may be genuine as Lods recognized.
» See note 9 above.
5 A gloss from
Gen. vi. 42 vaqniheiu is a transliteration of b\23, and thus a doublet of yeydvrey going
before : see Gen. vi. 4. oi izxvpoi ris Yis is an expanded rendering of bain and
oi key. Svokaroi of Bn

5N

in the same verse.

VT XVI

ዛኛነ፡

መጽሐፈ:

40

ወረሲዓን፡|' “ሹሲ፡ ዴትፌፊጸም፡
2. ወይኣዜ፤፡ ሰት7ሃኽ ጻሰ፡ ፈነዉክ። ትስጸል፡
በኣንቲጸሆመ፡፥ ጻሰ፡ ቁኗመሙመ፡፡ በሰማይ፤ ሀለዉ።
3. |ወድዴኣጻዜኒ፡]’ ጸንትመሙ፡፡ በሰማይ
ሀሰወክመ፥

ወ“(ቪሱ፡)፣

ሣቡጻነ፣

ዓደ፡

ጺ“ተክሥመት፡፡

ሰከመ፡

ወምኒናኔ፡

ምሠመጢረ፣

ጸጻላመርኻመ፡፥ ወዘንተ ዜነውኻመ፡ ሰጸንስት፥ በጽንዐ፡ ልአብካመ፥ ወበዝንቱ" ምሥጢር
ያበዝጋ፡። ጸንስኝ፡። ወሰብኣ፤ ጻኪዶት፡" በደበ፣ ምድር"።
4. በሎመ፡ ኣጻንከሰ፡ ጸእብክሙመ፡
ሰሳባመ።”
XVII. ወiሥጹ። ውስ ጸሕዲ፡ " መኻኳን፡ Jበ፡ ኣሰ; ሀሰዉ፡ ህዩ፡ ከመ፡ ኣሳ
ዘ“ይኔፎ.ፎ፡ ወሶበ፡ ደፈቅዲ፡ ያስተርኣዩ፤ ከመ፡ ሰብኣ።
2. ወ።ወሰዲኒ፡። ውስት፡ መኳ
ዘዐውሉ፡ ወውስተ” „ደብር ዘክትማ፤ ርጻሱ፥ ዶበጽሕ፤ ኣስከ; ሰማዴ።።”
3. ወርጺኩ፡
መኻናት፡። ብርሃናት” ወኔሃኮድኝፎ፡ ውስተ፡። “ጸጽናፍ፡ ኘበ፡ ዕመቃ” ኘበ፡" ቁመተ ኣሳ
ወ።ሕጽ፡ ወ“ምጕኮንጻቲሆመሙመ፡። ወሰድፈ፡ ኣሳት፣ ወመባርቅት፣ ዙሱ።።
4. ወነሥጽኒ፡።” ኣስከ፡

ማያት; ሕያዋን [ዘዴትናገር፡]። ወእስክ፣ ኣሳ ዐፀረብ፡። ዘውአቱ፣ ዶዴኣሣዝ፡ ሹሉ፡ ዕርበተ፤"
ፀሕይድ።
5. ወመባኳኩ፡“ “ኣስክ፣ ፈሰገ;“ ኣሰጎ፣ ዘድውሕሽ፡ ኣሰቲቱ፡ ከመ፡ ማይ፡ ወይደትክዐፀው፡
ውስተ፤ ባበሕር፡ ዐቢዶድ፤ መንገሰ;“ ዐረብ። = 6. ወርኩ" ዐበድተ፡ ጸፍሳገ፡። ወኣስክ፡ ዐቢይዴ፡“

ጽስልመት፥

በጻሕኩ፡

ወርኩ

ኘገበ፡ ሸሱ፡

1 An Ethiopic interpolation.

th; for ti

and # £Y&

Soy Teaergflerat.

+ 0 reads pA

(ጺነ“ያንሶሱ።

m, dy» omit ወeሲ.

for ይት.

m, B omit.

#4 add only ምችን

ሥጋ

7. ወርዉኩ፡

“2 0/u

ጸፎበረ፡

save that 9 reads

This clause is supported by Gs ep Sima

Here # adds ኣምትጉሃን፤

፣ ።, B-ደ'ዕy, i. ያመ

ወረሲጻን፡

ሹሰ፡

oh read ፈገውከi

5 An Ethiopic interpolation.

5 8 adds 0.

ኣምጓጊሃን፡

ያ Yፈገውክ፡
7 1 have here

sam. B~no(n) read Yhመti 0 (5) hy
added ff in accordance with G.
2m. 0 reas “ኒና
» 8 ምኒ
። ምኒን
TEAS PPE:
uF reads
ወበኣን1፡ ዝ". ። ወበዝ.
5 B-a8y., መያ a» read 0ዝሣ፤ 9 ያበዝኝ፤ = ዴበዝኝ፡

'5 reads RYN;
ue.
Other MSS. read ሰላም;
's 9 adds ቤት

miu, B read Ai
9 RY
5 o omits.
iy
i Z prefixes the superscription 30; Cat: IY; hያዋY;

I

SOME

5. All other MSS. read ወሰEii
abcdgk

read ውስ:

0 m,B.

= 9 reads pወሰደii

5 Im reads

ay:

SmI

mgyu omit.

21 se omits.

#9, c/hinoak.
Bu.

miu,

#9 read መeብርCtቲ

n ኣስከ: መኻናት
7 # (but in acc.}. mg read ብCYY; /u, 8-n ብሃ
» ብፉሃት፡
'# "Y፡;
5 a rሩaባs ዴበጽሕ፤ ጻስከ፡
= Possibly corrupt for RRS: 0g; =
ra Siepa Bdፅn. While £/ give 0py; mu, 8 read 0h:
9 Oy:
EER,
feB-as omit.
um.
gu omit.
5 Ba read Ua omitsyውNች;
OD
ራ reads ምጻ". ያ ምጕገንጳ". ። ሞጸፍታቲ".
= 9 reads PWN; w omits.
= 9g reads
ወነ ስኒ;
BEA
IE
oY
¥ So in superscription in 2 and G.
See note 11 above. All MSS. in text read ወት; save m which gives ht

mag.
read ዓረብ;

8

read HAYY.
an ss reads 8.

። HAY.

An Ethiopic gloss.

4 f reads a”

45 m omits.

Su

mh BH
Somga

ys

XVI, I=XVIL. SY.

ENOX

47

5

Gs

[ey

4

Kpireas1 Tils eydAS,

[eo

¢y ] 0 aiey 0

kéyas Texergi erat =.
ላ

[ey

[A

ፍ

Tis eyሪaknls, €y ] 6 aiay 6 ueyas Texe-

lrerat’

3

[4

[Ay

2. Kal voy €ypnyopots

#

ፆ

Tots Teuaity

¢@’ Gag Guo reAergoerat,

2)

é

[ey

cperjlrat

Tept

ላ

EN

ey

aur@y,

Big

otTtyes ° €y

otpayg ray
3. “Theis ¢y T9 ovpav fire, kai Ay vorilptoy [6]* ob
Qyékaእyn Suiy Kai uvrTibtoy f T9 €x To geo yeyeymluéyoy ? €yvere, Kai
Togro €lviraré Taig Yvyatiy €y Tats kAnIpokapitats Ju@y, kai €y T@ uvrrnpiy
ToUr® TAMOVyovrty at gilAetat Kat oi ivgpeot Ta Kaka ei Tis Yiis,
4. eimgy
ovy avrots 5 OUK €rTy eipilvn.
ን

መ

i

€,

#

hn

ፆ

ን

[ny

6

mN

e

ን

Ly

ኮ)

#

ኮ)

ኣ

[ny

L

ን

ላ

መ

ጫጭ

ላ

ce

N

[Ny

\ኣ

ፆ

PN

ል

[ey

4

ጦ

ን

L)

^ኣ

[4

[6

XV IL. Kai TapaXalBdyrés
€kei yivovratv Os Tip PAéYoy
2]

መ

[ey

#

ly

[9

be eis Tva Tonoy
Kat, gray géAorty,
ፆ

e

#

ግ!

3

ሮ

e

Le

(anilyayoy , €y » oi gyres
Ppaivoyrat are (iygparot,
2.

€

ኣ

2. Kai Qanilyaydy ue eis Co@pagn7 Tdroy Kat eis Gpos 00 ¥i kepaእs

LA

dpuxveiro

Kat Toys gNravpoys Ty
QaoTépeyl kai Ty Booyr@y, Px
kall eis T&% &epof3agi] ?, nov rdéoy Tupos kai Ti
ሩ
)
N
fs
ላ
2]
4
[6
Ben kai ai 0iikav avr 0 katላ ai agTDaTat Taya,
4, Kat anilyayoy ue
€is TOy ovpayoy.
2

}1

ን

[4

3. Kat Loy TOToy Tay
yy

ፆ

PpeaTlpeoy

[ey

JA

[N

\

ኣ

ኣ

[ey

/
ca
ያ
7
ld
5)
/
J
f
expt
SBdrey
Cvreoy
kal) exp
Tvposኣ Brews,
§C4 érruy
kal) Tapéxoy
1 das
Tsኣ
H
NY ei
ላIy
#
መሓ
#
ኦ]
ፍ
4
Bdrets Tog JX(oy.
5. kai JJAgoluely EXD Torauo Tupds, €y @ Kararpéxet T8ኣ
nip @s {Bop kai Beet eis gdXarray ueyéAny Byres.
6. (Boy 5 Toys Leydxoys
Torakoy(s), Kai expt ToD eydAoy 1Torauog kai éXpt To0 ueéydAoul 15 kdroys
4
AN
ep
=
)
F-2]
ጫ
X
N
Sn
KaTilvrTcras Kai &TiXgoy GToy nara rapé oy! Tepvrarei.,
7. {Boy Toys Gvéuovs
TO» Yyvd@ey {14 Toys Xetuepvvoys kai Ty EKxXvrty£ Tils GlBtgroy Tdvray VBdrey 15.
መ

N

1 E wrongly omits.
5 Add
Texergnrerat,
5 £ adds mpdrepoy,

bevnuévoy.

5 E adds tuiy.

\ኣ

መጫ

with Os ep rag Guo rexergera.
E = ges
= Interpolated (2), E omits.
2 E = egov-

7 E = YWwopegn taking ‘yvépos in the sense of « whirl-

wind’ or ‘tempest, as in Job xxvii. 2o (LXX).
s E seems corrupt, but may point back to sikpa Baፅn.

5 E=] kopvp) ris Kepaእs.
"E adds tai udxaipay rupds,

nu E = mapabexduevoy., 1 dont understand rapéxoy in this clause.
15 E = kai igo,
5 E omits through hmt.
1 E= ra pn Tey Ydpaov—a phrase that is derived from
Jer. xiii. 16 Ay) "ግn where the Targ. of Jon. has 23p YW, In the original then we
should have had N2ap ግ. In the text before the Greek translator ግ was corrupted
into ‘PJ, Hence rots civékous ray Yvdpaey. Lhese mountains are probably those
which the Babylonian Cosmogony represents as standing at the ends of the earth
in the neighbourhood of the « springs of the great deep, which are referred to in the

next line. These mountains may again be referred to in Ixxvii. 4 where the mountains
of the hoar frost are mentioned.

ack. fb B~aek read HY.
S reads ዓቢ;
# reads H.

Zrm.

*» FE = v8drey is d3vouy rans.

«2 8 add WN: against mg
9/u, (3 read HD):

%.

5 B reads AT;

4s Inserted in accordance with G.

48

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛክ፡

XV. RV

TE

ቁባራት፡ ኣሰ ካረምት፡ ወምሕዐወ፡፡። ማፎደ፡ ሾዙሱ፡፡ ቁሳባይ።
8. ወርጺዥኹ፡ ጸፉሆሙ፡
ሰዙሎመሙ፡’ ክፍሳገ፤ ምድር፡ ወጸፉሃ፡ ሰቁሳይዴ።
XVIII. ወርኩ ዛብ;
tr’
ንፋፉሰት፡ ወርጺኩ፡ ከመ ቦየመ፡ ጸበርገወ፡ ሹሉ ፍጥረች፡ ወመሰረፓቲሃ፡ ሲምድር።
5. ወርኩ
ኣብኔ፡ ማኣዘንተ። ም.ፎር፡ ወርጺኩ፡ ጸርባዕች፡ ነፉሳተ፣ ጻሰ፡ ድጸውርኛ፡፤ ሰም.ድር፡ ወጽንዐበ፡፣
ሰማይዴ።

3. ወርጳጺኩ፡ ከመ፤ ነፋሰት፡ ይረብብቸ፣

ለልዕልና፡

ሰማዶዴ፡፡ ወኣሙንቲ፡ ዴቁውመሙ፡

ማኣክሰ፡ ሰማደ፡ ወም.ድፎር፤ ኣሙንቱ" ውጻተመ፡

ጸዕማ.ደ፡ ሰማዴይ።

ኣሰ፡ ደመይጥኛኞ፡

ሰካበበ፡።

ለሰማይ፡

ወጻሰ;።

ም.ድር፡

ነፉሰተ፣ ዘድጸውር፡

5. ርጺኩ፡'፡ ዘ“ደበ;
ርጺኩ፡”

ውስት፣

ጽንፈ:

ምፎር፡

ሇያፀርቡ፡።

ጽንዐ;

ፀሕሐይ፡

ተበደመናት፤"

ከ“ስማዶ፡

4. ወርጺኩ፡ ነፋሳት
ወዙሉ፡።”

ርኩ”

መልዕልእተ።”

ከዋክብት።"

ፍናወ፤ መሳአክት
6. ወ“ሕሰፍኩ፡።

መንገሰ፡ ጸዜብ፡ (ወርጺኩ፣፥ መኳሄ)። ዘ“ይነፎ.ፎ፡ መፀልት፤” ወሴሲኝ፣ ግበ: ሰብንቱ፡
ጸድባበር፡ ዘኣምኳብን፡;” ካቡር፡። ሂየመንገሰ፡ ጽባሕ፤ ወጀመንገሰ፡ ጸዜብ፡።።
7. ወዘ።”መኘኝገለ፡
ጽበሕ፣ሰ፡። “ዘጻምኣጻብ፣ ሕብር፡። ወኔሰ፡ ጸምጻብ፤። በሕርዶ፡” ወኒ; ጳምጻብ። ፈውስ"
ወ“ዘመንገሰ፡ ጸዜብ፡። ኣምኣጻብን፡። ቁዪሕ።"።
8. ወማኣጻክከባይበሰ፡ ይጕ.ፎኣ፤ “ኣስክ፡
ሰማደ፡። ከመ መንበፉ፣ ሰኣጻገዚጸብሔር፡ ዘኣጻምጻብ። ቴክ" ወድማሑ፤፥ ሰመንበፉ፡፣
ኣምጻብ፤ኔ፡። ሰንፔር።"

9. ወጻሳሰተ፡"” ዘይኔፎ.ፎ፡ ርጺኩ፡ ተ ወዘሀሉ፡ ውስት፡ ሹሲ፡ ዚፎበር።ቱ።

10. |(ወርዚኩ፣

መካን;

ህና፡]=

1 m reads &Y

sSF0u.

ተማዕፉቱ፡!1።

ሰ“ዐቢዴ፡

my Bread 3;

+ 9 reads Oh;
5 reads At
gu "ዝንት;
sak
#8 read AX".

PI

ምድር፡።

ህዛ

ይሃጋብጹ፡”

5 b reads Hi

c omits.

a Om:
7 Zu, 8.
reads “HY:
2 df omits next four words through hmt.

0 g omits.
Sbabcd.

1 9g reads ይAውCTi
= bcoxab. SoG. All other MSS. read AA;
Zu read OC
mFx 3.
9 tOCብi
« AFOCቡ
B80» 3.

# ዓርቱ፡

4 ያሶ B-L

ድ reaባs ላ0ሲ፡ ኮክከብ፡

= ሰኮከብ፤ ወሲ.

/ ክበበ

= ois.

i # puts in nom.
15 a. FB prefix ©.
77 omit.
Sm. gu read RAC:
ይ 6B ይጸውፉፍ፤፥ !/ ኣገዘ፡ ይረውዷ፡
'5 ወ
ዘ ተሮaባs ዷበ፡ ደመናት
/ 5 ደመናች፡
Text corrupt.
miu. g@read CAW:
= 9 omits. / prefixes ©.
= guy

read RRS:

= Fm read &Y0i

am read HAE:h
M55. read ©.
ካቡረ፡ • ክብር

= u omits.

= gny read መAOAYY

=m,

7 Restored in accordance with G.
5 2 only. All other
Su.
mgt, B read m3.
0 9 reads HA}:
1 2 reads
2 omits next two words.
Se. All other M55. ©.
Rd:

Bi (Flemming). e omits ሰ.
®» 2 g/u (save that #9 read A}: for ብ), 9-45.
መ rሮads “ብ፡ በወሕር፡ ሃኔ “ጻብን፡ ሣቡር፡
“መሠ
ድ reas ኣምኔ፡ /, 8 ዘኣምልጻብ፡
7 9 reads በረ

5 0,9 omit.

5 a,a., B~a read HA".

4 omits.

5 gt nu add 0.

3 068.

read Phi

» 9 reads ሰ:

5m,

mu

read “AH;

m0 read Eni

9'LN;

40 m reads &DN;

uu.

Other MSS,

ia, ageftiny.

bcoB read AIC:
Sg reads NYEC:

» xa ሰውቱ: መንበር፡
“m/w. 2 reads ም
9,8 HAምAብH
uF read Ai Xa omit ©.
= A bad and corrupt ren-

dering

Sy

Of kdiréxeya

Gpéey rovray.

Wi: is corrupt for At;

dréxeva is always

XVII. 8S—XVIIL. ro.

8B. [Boyz T9 rdua

ENOX

49

Tis Yils Tdvraey TAy ToTakéy

kat T9 rdua

Tis Avro.

XVIII, igoy 1 Toys gnavpobs Ty Gyéuay Tdyrey, {Boy1 Gru ¢y avrois éxdguney
ndras Tés Krireés kai T6y géueéAtoy ils Ys,
TNs

[ey

Ys.

[ny

Boy

መሓ

L)]

መሓ

TOU

OUpayOy,

N

Toys
3,

[4

BD

Terrapas
\

Kats

9

ን

N

Gvéuovs

abrot

Nie

Tv

ጮ

8, Kai T6y Aigoy Boy ils yovias
[on

Yilv
ኣ

trary

eragy

[4

Barrdcovras,
[om

YS

Kab

ላ

kat

ን

oybayoy

\

ሓ3

ኣ

T9
,

[4

repéoua
4. iBoy

1

4“ rpépovras

Qyéuovs ¥T6y otpav@y
kat Btayeyovras
{ 5 Toy TpoxSy Tog JAioy,
kai Tdyras Toys dQrrépas.,
5. (Boy Toys én Tis Yiis dvéuovs Barrd(ovras f ¢y
vepean
Y5. iBoy7 (Tap6)$s Tépara i]s Yils, T9 riovyua Tog oypayoD endive.
6. [IIapfiXgoy? [kai iBoy TToyl

katduevoy yukros kai iuépas, 6roy Ti ¢nr& gon

Qo Aigay ToAvréX®y, (Tpia) 10 eis &yaroAkds kai Tpia 10 eis vdroy 1[BdAAovra.1 11
7. kai T& iy pos GyvarToAQs 15 én Aigoy Xpéuaros, T9 Be Jv &n9 Aigou
kapyapiroy, kat T6 $6 Xtgoy f Tages
f715, Ta 15 B¢ kara ydroy any Aigov Tvppog"
8. T9 Bt éroy avr@6y lv eis obpavdy, @orwep pvos geo én A(gov povkd 17,
kal 3] Kopvpy] Tog gpሪyovy &n9
3
#
[ei
ep
#
kG(TéJketya TOy Qpéay Tovray
1 E = kai igo.

5 Before

oypavov—]ost through hmt.

Aigovu arbeipov
9. kai Tip Katduevoy Boy.
[4
3
)
[4
16
(©
[4
GE
iE]
N
10. Tonos €arty Tépas15
Tis ueydAns Yiis" €xet
xai FE adds

kai igoy os oi éveuot ééféretyoy rT) SWos roy

3 Add with E ai ogroi eirey oi riAot To0 oypayo—]0st

through hmt. (cf. Job xxvi. 21).
« We should probably emend into roy oypaydy
with E.
5 E = Buyovras in an active sense, and this is probably the right reading
here.
Buayeiovras has been emended into gevevovras (Dillmann) « whirling,’ but so
far as there is any sense in this it is already conveyed by rpehpoyvras., Swete proposes
Suayvovras 2 but this would require rpdxoy, whereas the context requires rpoxéy (cf.
1xxiii. 2). According to xxii. 5 the wind blows along the chariot of the sun.
Does
this imply in our text Btarvéovras, but this word could not rightly be used in this
sense.
5 So also best MSS. of E. Later MSS. = ras vecheaas.
71 Add with £
Tas Bote T&y GyyéAey iBov—]Ost through hmt.
5 Added wiih E£.
Lost before
mepara.

Radermacher and Diels add epi Td.

2 E adds moe vgroy,

i M5 rp:

u MS. BaAovras.
5 Add T9 ues (Radqermacher).
® E=IACCJC., Corrupt (ሆ)
for IACTIIAOC (nan) = « of jasper.” But since Tages is the reading of Gs, the Ethiopic
translator most probably found merely a corrupt form which suggested some
derivative of igcgat as iarixoi., This word taken in conjunction with ragey might

point to iaxivgou as the original word, Or iavgivov.
To,

5 An Aramaic form of a8.

Diels suggests the latter,

misrendered. Cf. xviii, 12; xxiv. 2; xxx. 1, 3; xxxi. 2.
Other MSS. read oni:
= mrépay corrupt for répas,

ወድ ገብጽ፡

= MS.

16 E = repay.

= Addition inf,
0 reads
0.
‘This seems an unhappy rendering of vvreegilrovrat,
H

“Egy.
9 reads

50

መጽሐፉ:

ዛኖካ፡

WIT ro

ሰማያት።'
11. ወርጺኩ፡፡ ንቅዐት። ዕሙቱ። በጸዕማኗደሆ፡ ሰኣሳች፡ ሰማይ፤ ወርጺኩ፡
በውጓቴተመ፡ ጸዕማደ። ኣሰት፡ ዘይወርድ; ወጸእቦሙ፡፣ ጐልቂ፡፡ ጦ’ዚመንገሰ፡" መልዕእት
ወ“ዚ"መንገሰ፡ ዕመኾ።
12. ወዷደበ፡;" ውኣቱ፡ ንቅፀት፡ ርxኩ፡ መካ; ወ“ዚ“ጽን9፡ ሰማይ
ላዕሴሆ፡ ወጺመሰስረተ፡። ምፎር፡ በታሕቴቱሁ፡" ወጺማ፤ዩ፡"፣ ጸእቦ፡ በሳዕሴሆ፡። ወጽጸዕዋፈ፡"
ጸባ: መኣ፤ ቢፎው፥ ውኣጓቱ፡ ወገፉም።።
18. ርዲኩ፡ በህዩ፡ ሰብ91፡ ከዋኳክብገ፡ ከመ
ዐበዴት፡ ጸፎባር፡ ዘዴነፎ.ፎ፡። ተወክከመ፡ መንፈክ፡ ዘይሴጸሲኒ።ቱ።
14. ዶቤ” መልጸኳ፡
ዝ“ውኣቱ፡ መኳ፤፡። ተፍጻሜቱ: ሰሰማዶደ፡ ወሰ“ም.ድር፤ ቤተ፡ ሞቅሕ፡ ኮያፃመ፡ ዝንቱ
ሰከካዋክብት፡”

ኣሱ፡።

ወሳጋይሰ፡

ውኣተመ፡

ጺመጽሉ፡

ሰማሣዶ።

ኣጻለ፡ ኃለፉ

በደዜሆሙ።

ኃጢጸተሙ፡”

15. ወከዋክብት

ትኣዛዘ፡
16.

ኣገዚጸብሔር፡

ወ።ተምዕያሙ፡

በዓመት፣ ተምሥሠጢር።ተ።

ኣለ፡ ያንኰረችፉ፡።

ኣምቅ.ድመ፡

ወጸሰሮሙ፡

ኣጻስከ፣

XIX. ወዴቤሲኒ፡ ዙርሌል፡”

ዷበ፡

ኣሰ

ጽባሖመ፡፥

ጻስመ፡።

ሂዜ፡

ትፍጻት፡

በዝሂ፡” ትደሚሮመ።

መላኣኳቫ፣ ምስለ፡ ጸንስነ፡ ደቁቀውመ። ወ"’መናፍስቲሆመሙ፡”" ብዙንኝ፡” ራኣዩ፤ ከዩኖሙ፡።
ጸርኩስዎመ፡” ለሰብኣ፡ ወያስሕትዎመሙ፡። ከመ፡ ይሠውፁ፡ ለጸጋንንትነ፡ ከመ፡ ጸማልካት፡
ኣስከ፡። ዕላተ፡“ ዐባይ፡ ሹኔ፡ በዛ፡ ዶትኬነኒ፡ ኣስከ፡ ድችትፌጸሙ።
5. ወጸንስቲያሆሙ፤፡
ሲስሑታን፡“። መሳኣክት፡። ተከመ፡ ሰዛማደያት፡፥። ይከውና።”"
3. ወጸሄ” ሃኖኳ፡ ርኩ”
ጸርጸያ፡። በሕቲት፣ዩ፡። ጸጽ፣ፈ፣ ሹት፤ ወጻእቦ፡ ዘዴይሔመኒ፡” ኣምሳብኣ፣ ከመ ስነ" ርዉኩ።
1a.

feimi3 read mY;

5 sa omits.

2 g reads RYO:

“5 add ድር

4 @h read 0p;
° mg/u, 8 add ሰማይ; H against £,/.,
° a. 8 reads H£ወርዴ
7 m reads HX. 9 read: DAA
gu. m,abcdeFinxap read HA
1580
cad NE:
5 e omits.
1) g omits next two words through hmt,
uu ss omits.
5 mb B~aL aN, alread 0h:
5 Wrong rendering of éreéeetva.
2 omits.
5 wu reads pራy;

ሲ.

5 a9.

iam,

adh.

» a-m.,

m,fl8 read BOP:

9 reads በመትሣቴሁ፡

mo, HRDceFRnoxay read "mE

“9,8.

5 በታሕቱ፡

5 Fm,

gm read Ai

9 ads ወጺሰማዩ፡

lL gh 87 read AO.

# 2A

= 9. All other

MSS. read D7;

# % trans. 7” after CA; in next verse.

= » reads DAU; and

trans. before CAWS

= af, save that 9 omits H. #8 read Hi;

Here / adds in margin

the gloss ANY: AA; ወድ:
™ Corrupt. See note 5, Dp. 51. G = HAYERPa:;
ኣንዘ፡ ኣሴጸእ፡
= 9 prefixes ©.
5 mf. gu read lH.
£9 read my
5faex,a read ©.

ኃa-gፃ

21 9 reads NYC

ox b. a, 8X read Ai

omit,

5 9 reas Bጣውጺሆሙ;

kvpiey. G iS Correct.

m m.

9,18 read ሲሰከዋnብት፣

See XXi. 6.

All other MSS. omit.

against G.

For ብWY; of 2g

5 Corrupt,

Yiu.

ሰማዴ፡

(2) AN;

%2/ read ወሲ, 5 AN.

=F reads Ami

E = vtaurg vrrbiou,

Zmg,,aread kራዜA

0 a reads መሰEYEሆPa
we find AWD; in m8.

ey

(2 €yeavr®y

5 / reads HY

u All MSS. prefix ©
5 5,8,

a reads hp:

5 Zu, 8B. mg read RCs
“5 omits. 9, 8-9 add ANሰብNi
*» ni bcBoxk.
Fg, age/8ina read Ni
“gmHcoXxS. gw, b read 0AY; 7°, age2si100AY;
/(ቋነ። a በዕለት
5 Emended from Rስሒተቶን; of «7, 8. 9, a read Aስሒተሙ

VY

ENOX

ሪ
uvTekerhilcoyrat

ን
ፆ
ote obpayoi.,

51

7
11, kaiNy (boy Xda

#
4
1
uéya
éyኃ Totsጫ riAos7r
TogIe

TUpOS KaTalBaivoyras kai ovk 1iy uerpoy otirée eis Bdgos otire eis itiNyos.,

13, kat

eréxketya Tot Xdruaros Toyroy {Soy Toy nou ob6¢ repéea ovparog endive,
iH
FASE
#
CE
HE
ep
GON
ALR
TA
#
otire
Y9ሓ3ዓe3
5 1] 5 TegeueAteuéyn
5 VrokdrTa
atrog
ore
Bp
ly
U9 avry
« otiré
Teretydy,
GAA Tሪnos Tv €pNuos Kai pofgepds.
13. éxet iBoy énra drépas ws Opn
LéydXa Katdueya, epi Gy nvygayouéy® ots
14. einey 6 dyyeAos Ors €rTty
6 Tiros TO TéAos ToD otpavog kat Yiis' Berharilptoy Torro éyévero Tots oTpous
1
ን
ሓ6
=)
[7
ያ
ጋ
kaiላ 25 Xraisጫ Bvyvduéerw
Tog[en ovpavog
.
15, kai\ oic Grébes
ote KuXdlteyot
é€y
መሓ

[ey

lm

መሓ

[Ny

LA

T9 Tupi ogrot sity oi Tapalgdvres Tpdrayua
Kvypioy? ¢v dapxn Tis
GvaToMiis atréy [grt Tdnos ¢£a ro oypavog kevds gory] $, Gre ovk €EiA0ay €y
mn
fy
[ny
)
Tois
Katpoisfa) afréy
16. kai Qpyicgn avrots
kaiላ é€néy
avrovs expt KatpoDማጫ
ON

መ

[

#

3

on

os

TéAeudrews [airy] Glaprias airy, ¥éytavr@y uploy 5.
XIX. kai eiréy uot Oypuix ‘EvgdBe oi uvyévres &yyeAot rais Yvyvavkiy
Tijrovrat, kai Ti TyeiuaTa aréy ToAYuoptpa Yeyéueya XvuaiveTat Tovs GyOpaToys
kai TAamlret avroys éergveuy Trois Batuoviots 10 Léxptir Til ueéyaAns Kpires, €y
[4

ን

HN

Ls

ፆ

ን

[ey

3

ኮ)

Ley

(

9

መጫ

[ay

D Kpugleoyrat eis Qroreaeiuru'.
?

[ey

3, ¥xai ai yvvaikes
[ay

I
TD
a
ayycAey
“ és etplyvas
' YemlrovTat,

lA

air6y TOy TapalBdvrey

Gs
3. Ky

ላ

ጫ

ጦ

UA

Os:

‘Evex iBov Ta gepuara

8.

ላ

E6vos, Xr Tépara Tdyrey, Kat oy hl
i891 1# obB¢ eis Gygpeney @s €y@ Boy.

.....,..

dGOponay

es
€

eye
SN

ፍ

eigor.

1 MS. es Tovs rvaovs. Add with E Tog ups Toy obparoy kai (Soy €y abrois ruAovs—
lost through hmt. If G is not defective read eis Xdrka béya ros rvovs.
But
the text requires Xda to be the object of igo.
s E = éxeivov.
5 MS. puts in acc.
‘MS.

avro.

2 MS. mcgayouatoy uo.

s = PMBn Nay. Cf.r Kings xxii. 19.
€uavr® vrTnipiou.

Cf. XX. 6.

E corrupt = kai @s myetuaTa mvvgaygueyd ou,

7 E=geo%.

SA glossin Gs.

0 E adds os geois,

° E corrupt=

uu FE adds ris uépas.

yr

phrase reproduces literally an Aramaic idiom Sn »ግ NaNጋy »ግ nob,
E is here
corrupt. See note 41, p. 50.
5 See note 49, p. Bi. eipilv = ny? in Mic. 1. 85
Jer. xxvii. 39 and sy’ na in Isa. xiii. 21 and in in Job xxx. 295 Isa. Xxxxiv. 13,
xiii. 20,
1 Some MSS. of E add 8 igoy,
E = እayjrarat and is corrupt. G reflects an Aramaic idiom. See note on Greek text.
5
9/1. mu read መAላAMYi /, 5 መሳa፣ ሰማይድ፡
5 Fmt (VY Im), gw, 8 read
"ወያነ

5-8

"ውያን

50 g reads WS:

E =

65

eipqvaiat,

5 Z reads DAY:

a

corruption

55

of G

eis

eipqvas =

adds በጸ0ዶንቲዩ፣ በ.

ሰጴደሪኝ፡

3 g reads

ራኣ.ያጊ፡
# c reads AN". 9g trans. after #;
sat
#l8 read HCA £9,
bclx,a add HCA wu NምNብAi HCA; against / G.
a, m trans, alter CA

82

መጽሐፈ፡

ሄናኻ፡

XX. IT XRXT. 3.

XX. ወዝንቱ ጸስማቲሆሙ ለኣለ፡ ዴተኘሆሁ፡ ቅዱሳሰን፡ መላኣኳት።
2. ጽዙርሌል።
፩“ኣመላኣኻት;፡ ቅዲሳን; ኣስመ፡ ዘንሲም፡፡ ወዘተቱረዓ.ፎ።1፣
3. ፉፉሌስል፡ “ጸም ቐዱሰን፡
መላኣኻት፡ ዘመናፍስተ፡ ሰብኣ።
4. ራፐዜል። ሄኣም መላሳኣክት፡ ቅዲሳን፡ ዘዶትቤዋቁሱሉ፡

ሰዓሲም፡ [(ወለብርሃናት።

5. ሚካጴል፡ ጀኣምኔ፡ መላኣክት፣ ቅዱሰን፡ ኣስመ፡ ዷደበ፡ ሠናድቱ፡

ለሰብኣ፡ ተጸዛዚ፡’ ዲበ; ሕዝብ።።

6. ስራቃሌል፡”

ጀኣምኔ፡ መላኣክት፣ ቅዷፉሰን፡" ዘዲኗበ፡

መናፍስት”

ዘ“መናፍስት፡

የጋጥጹ። “=

[ጻኝሰ፡

ኣመሕያው፡|"

መላኣሕት፣ ቅኗሰሳን፡ ዘኗበ፡ “ገ1ት፡ ወጸክድስት፡" ወ“ኪፉቤን።”"

7. ገብርጴል፡

ሄጻምሄ፡

XኋI. ወጽድፎኩ፡” ኣስከ፤;።

ንበ፡ ጸልቦቲቱ፡።” ዘዴትገበር።
5. “*ወበህዩ፡ ርጳጺኩ፡። ግብረ፡ ፃፉመ፤ ርጵኩ፡።” ወጺሰማዩ፡።
ላዕሰሲ፡;። ወጺምድሪ፡። ሱርርተ፣ ጸሳባ፡ መኳገ፡;። ዘጸኮ፡” ድልው” ወ“ፃፉም።።=
3. ወ“ህዩ፡።
ርዚኩ፡ ሰብዐተ ከዋክብት፡ ሰማድ፤ ኣጻሱራ፤፡።” በሳዕሴሁ፡። ተሣቡረ፤ቱ። ከመ፡ ጸፎባር፡ ዐበይት

ia, Bn.
wu reads DH: £ contains the superscription aI:
ሰቅዱሰን፤ መሳኣክት'፡ 5-5 ። aዛባ ውእቱ against a, ፀ።. ያ adds ርጺኩ፡
29 read ዙራ".

2 £.

Al other MSS.

read Hረ3ም;

Other MSS. read Ay

RስማtሆPa;
IE
“ Em. from yg HA3A:;

መላ.

° May point back to a corrupt transliteration of

Tdprapos.
mg, ak.
reads መላ” ቅዲ". / 8-5t Aም!፡ መሳ" ቅዱ“.
m5.
Z9read ራft". /ራP. uራm ee s An intrusion in E. For A » (5),8 read Ait:
"a de% read Xfi

my.

gu read TAHH:

" m reads በ£fi

= See note 8,

p. 53.
Hag, akoy. 9 reads A". B~a#o ሰረ2p". # omits following B.
a8
add Aስመi
gf All other MSS. read “"&EስYi
5 Bracketed as an intrusion
in E.

7 Acc. of lim. after $2 or a locative?

G has emir mvevuart.

Oy

JFRInoXb. 9, ac deh read ty. uy.
207 save that 2 9 insert H before AY.
5o als0 m save that it reads HRኪዶስት; for AN". 5 reads Aኪስት (“8 ኪት) ወHበ:

Wi

miu

this word.

Cf. Gen. xii, 6, where it is a rendering of Beogeve.

g reads Hh}:

2,9 rN

= = epoyevoa, a rare sense of

XXVi. 15 XXxii. 2 epogeve is rendered by héi

o() ውስት;

#8 add መnYi

rad Cጺኩ፥ በyና፡
‘5am,

a.

ony

በህዩ፡

8 Rሰማt፡

በድው

The

kevagroy,

0,8,

ag read FAO

reads (Ut: and trans. afier CA!

SL

9 reads ወርኩ

7 a. /°/8 read AA

text

m Em. from Hhis of a9 (so Flemming).

#

In xxii. 1,75 xxiii. 15

w#eB~0 (») read Ahh:

= a, asf 8u0b. bcg/(wy) xa read RAO

/።, 5 ወርጺኩ፥

m reads ጺሰይ:

FB read

5 Fmgt.,

was

= £ reads ወምድር

probably ny

9, 8 read H only.
298.

“0m
mu, 8B omit.

originally.

Ct. G.

HAh; £A@s = Skara-

miu read Tri

5 g omits.

Fm no(n)0. gu, B50 read ራን:

Sg reads “bሆaws
TF reads Aበei Dillmann suggested that Ate; is corrupt
for JA:
But we require not Tዲ.5 here but JAH:
It seems, therefore, more
probable that the translator of E which = Suoy had a mutilated form of soptuuéyovs
before him like Suos. Another solution is possible. See note 12, p. 53.

IER,

ENOX

58

Gs:

#1

XX,

“AYyeXot

PR
=

[A

@YYEAOy

3. Paሐanlእ, 9 els Ty

&yiey QyyéAey

6 €ni Ty

TOv

TvevhaTey

GvOpéTaoy.

4. PayouiX*, 6 els Ty yiey GyyéAey
9 ekBixOy 5 T6y Kdruoy ¥rOv pacTpeoy 5. 5. Mixa, 6 els TOy yay
ን

#

t

@YYEAOV

SN

IN

O €Tt

dN

T@y

ኣዛ

Toy

Aaoy

Fe

aya0@y

erayuéeyos KatKai? ር €Ti
€eTni TyTO Xa®
Xdé@s . 6. 26TeTayueyoS
ኣ
plX, 9 els T6y aytey ayyéAeay 0 ent
[an
t
ey
RN
ጫ
ፆ
9
TOV TVEULETy OLTLVES TET TD TyEVHaTL
#

1

[Le

C

uaprdvovry.,

ፆ

>

[4

1

7. Tapa,

ኦ

6 els ray

@yiy GYYEA@y 0§ <i Tog Tapageiroy
fe
[6
Kat\ TO
BDakoyToy
Kat\ Xépovf3etyFeO
Sie

3

Fy)

Ls

ያ

ል

PN

iT

[ey

e

apXayyeAay OvouaTa era

XXT.

t 11

_.

Kai epdgevra tas Tis dxara-

FkevdrToy.,
[A

2. KGkei

€geardluny

¥

ovpayoy

ጦ

PEEP

PoBepoy'

ፆ

€eopaka

ouré

2

ላ

¢€pyoy
DF

nay,

otiré Yiiy Tegéaliat TegeheAveoueyny, &AAd
kai poBepoy.
GkaTarkevarToy

TOTO
ያ

i

ኣ

1d

DO EIS TOY VOD
L!

O

ጎ

€Tb

)

[ey

#

TOV

)

KOgLOUV

[ey

Kat

TOU

Taprdpoy. 8. PaሐpayX 6 eis T@y ayiwy
yyy 6 eri Ty TrevudTay TOy Gy
gpenay. 4. ‘PayovilX 6 eis T@y75 Gyioy
QyYEAOy 6 €kBtkOy it TOV KOuoOy TOy
barrioey.
5. Muxax, ¥ 6 els Tey: 5

dyiey @YYéAy
H

in

0s eri Ty ToD Aaog

#

@yag@ay

NN

TeTakTat

Kat

መ

€Ti

PTO

T@

Xa®

.

6. SapuIX; 6 «fs T&y &yiay &YYEAGy 0 €rt
TOV TyvevudTay oirtyes él T8 TyebuaTt
aabréyovrw.
7. TaBpuiእ, 6 eis Ty
Qyiey &YYEA®y 6 ¢rni Tot Tapagetroy kat
Bir pe:
TOy BDakOVTOy Kat XepOuVBLy,
መ
L.)
keui, 6 els TS» &yiey GYyéAay Oy
1 17
€rakey 6 ge0s €eni Ty Gyr Tauevoy.
XOvdluara C€ GpxayyéAey,
XX. Kai epagevra expt THs axamn

(5

ፆ

ኦ)

[ey

[4

1d

\

LEN

Le

ላ

ፆ

\

ፆ

TarkevdToy.,
3, kai éxei egeardluny
€pyov pofgepdy" €dpaka obré ovpayby

endive oirée Yiiy regéueaeuémy,
TOTOV

GkaTarkeyaToy

5
ln
#
c
ኣ
[ei
3
L
3. KatNr €kei
Tegéauat
€nTd
TOy
dayTéDwy

3. kai éxei Tegéauat

Tog ovpayog BeBeuéyovs kal €Dtuuéyoys 15

otpayog

BeBeuéyovs

\

Kat

GAAS

pogepgy.

CC dQrrépas Tog

kat €Dtuévovs

€y

Its complement is found at the close of the chapter:
1 ‘This verse is defective.
G1 GpXayyAey Svdkara érrd which should, however, be read as in G5 Gydkara ( apxayYee.
Taken together these point tO Sydkara T@y émré dpXayyeAey Tay Bvydeoy,
E = kai Taird €oTuy GyguaTa T&y €Ypnyipey TO» dyiey GYYEAoy,
2 Tf the original were

Hebrew we might with Lods take duos here to be a rendering of N5y as in LXX,
Gent x5, Deut. iv. x9, Xvi. 3; Isa. xxiy; 21,
* E corrupt = Tpdkous
= DNB.
5 MS. exBeikey TL have cmended in accordance with E. See, however, note on
XXiil. 4 below.
5 FE = kai rots pegriipas, but G is right.
7 E wrongly

omits.
s Though E£ = Aad, the above is right Uriel presides over Chaos:
See Xx. 1, 2 (xviii. 12). The ai which Gs preserves before eri 79 Aay supports
this view.
E gives acc. of limitation.
10 See Ges: for ver. 8 omitted here and
TE
On these words see note 1 above,
s This phrase goes badly with
Tegéahat. 1s it a gloss due to Ver. 47
5 MS. roy,
15 MS. exexeoy,
» MS. o ees
Toy,
15 See note 8 above,
7 This verse is genuine although lost by Gs and E.

This is shown by the érrd in both Gs' and Ge.

34

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛሄኛኻ፡

XXE SD

ወበ'ጻሰት፡ ኣንዘ፡። ይነዱ?
4. ውኳት፡፥ ፲ዜ፡ ኣቤ፡ በኣንት፤ ጸዴ፡ ኃጢጸኝ፡ ተጸስሂ
ወበጻንተ፡ ምንት ዝዩ: ትገድፉ።
5. ወዴደቤሲኒ፤ ጽዙርሌል፡፡ ፩“ኣምቐዱሰን፤ መሳኣሕት'፡፣
ዘምስሌዩ፡

ውኣቲቱ፡

ዘይደመርሐኒ፡’

ወዴቤ፤

ሄኖካክ፤ በጻንገ፡

መኒ"

ትሴጸል፡"

ወበጻንት፣

መቱ

ቸተጤና;። ወትጽህቅ።
6. ኣሱ፡ ውጻቶተመ፡"” ጳምሄ ከዋክብት ኣሰ፤ ጋለሩ፡ ትጻዛዘ፡
ኣግገዚጸብሔር፡። ወተጸስፉ፡፥ በቢ"ሽዝዩ፡ ሓጻስክከ፡ ሶበ; ዴትፌጺጸም፣ ትጻልፊት፤ ዓም" ጐልቁ፡።
መዋዕሲ፡

ጋጢጸተሙ።

7. ወ"ጻምህዩ፡

ውርኩ፥

ካልጸ;”

መካ”

ኣምዝሽ፡።

ዘይገርም

ወ።ርጺኩ፡ ፃብራ፡ ፃፉመ፤። ልሰት፣ ዐቢድ፡ በህዩ;። ዘ“ድኔፎ.ድ፡ ወያንበሰብል፡

ወ“መምተትርተ፡”

ቦቱ፡

ዘያወርፎዎመሙመ፡።

መኣኒ፡።

ኣስክ፡

ቁሳደ፡

ፍጽም”

ጸዕማደ፡።

ሓጻሰት፡

ፀበዴት፡።

ወጺ“ጸምጣኖ፡። ወጺ“0በየ;፣ ጺኽህልኩ፡ ነጽሮ፡። ወስጻንኩ፡ [8ጽሮ፡]” ዐይኖ።“"
ቶዜ፡ ኣቤ ኣፎ፡ 7ፉም፡ ዝንቱ መኻካኘጌ፡ ወሕሙም፡።
ጽዙርዜል፡።

B“ኣምቸዱሰን፡

መሳጻካነ።"።

ኣጻንዘ፡“

ለኔነጽሮ።
ምስሴሌዩ፡"”

9. ውጻ፡
ሀሰወ፡“"

8. ውኣት

ዪዜ፡ ጸውሥጸ፤

ወዶቤሲኒ፡”

ሄኖሕክ፤"

1 Em. with G tai ¢y from OH of
Z9#. m reads ስለ; #8 hao; H.
2 g reads
ዐበይት ዚ.
5a-0,n. 0, bX read AYE.E: B-I»hnx ይኔኦEዲ
«+ 9 ads ተችጸስፉ፡

ወበጻን1፡
ቅዱ" መሳ".

5 m reads IE;
8-8 ኣምኔ መሳ" ቅዱ".

5 9 reads ጽራሌስ፡
#ደ ኣመላ" ቅዲ".
sZ.

ag. 9 reads Nk:
All other MSS. omit.

5 Read PRCሆPaw; with G jyeiro airav.,
መንነ
n F/u,B. m reads ትስaልi

Ct. xxiv. 6; Ixxi, 15 Jxxiv. 2.
0 gy read
9 ትጥድቅ
5 £. m reads ትYnhይቅi /u,

8 ትጤደቅ፤

a4 ትጽህቅ፤

7 ትሴጸል፡

Here ትጤዩቹ፡

are to be taken together as

a rendering of Tijv SAjgetay pexorovgeis. See note 2, p. 55. /u, 8 add ወትስaል:
5 9, x read NYE
= m trans. before JA; and inserts H before AL.
a prefixes 0.
5 8 adds ልሁል
5 mw omits.
I BmEy, 0. ZB omit,
5 Em.
with G rn from 3A;
5 ድፀ/a. መ, 8-8 read A:
= Jልዊ፤ 97 Drehx ©.
Fm omit,
wu reads AA aod AA
= 9 reads ni
“9 read AAA:
m AH: u Drefixes ©.
“gu, acFaép.
mh Bdeinoxay read HRC;
5 # omits.

Saf omit,

መ reas ምትረት፡
መሞችትርት፡

CR;

7 dy read Oi

/መሞትርት፣

4 መመተርት

SDcho omit.

ዕ/(ይ»ሠኔነ).። መምተርት፡

። ሞተርት፥

። መሞትርት፤

Sg, 9comit.,

goa.

። መትርት፣

ረ/5ደዕx

። «a. 8 read ወሰri

Here m adds superscription በAiY; ቤY; Pe

ለመAAnY'i

= 9 reads

These words

are given also in £ at top of column beginning with xxi. 5b.
5 wu reads AOS. H.
Ng, bc IFBIO0VX,R DS, but g trans. after next word. a9, ae#n prefix 0.
PgmtB.

ያ“ ያጸውድዎ፤

። የበ(ውነፎዎመ፡

፡፣ 9 reads ጸምጣፉ፤

። ጸምጣኖመ፥

" 9 reads

0በtዩ; ። 0በየሙ፡
። omits next two words and ©.
5 g omits next two words
through hmt.
5 An intrusion in E£. » adds Afb; before JRC: and omits this word
in next Verse.
uw. So als0 m 3&7; #/RIn0XB read Yr; acds,a 0£Lk:

h omits.

2 reads በROድንLt:

Flemming.)

# reads wri

9 ደኖ;

i Em. from hi

of a8, B. (50

See note io, p. 55, and note 5, D. 90.

= 29 read

59

ENOX

XXL. 3-0.

ie)
3
INTER
[4
/
አኽ»
€y @uT® » Ootoys OpéTty HéyaNots Kat €y
ላ
[
[6
ቅ
\N
4. TOTé etnoy Ata
TUDE Katokevoys.
ላ
Toiay airtay érebégnray, kat Ba Tt @9e

Gs
ን
te
#
tc
#
ary,
Ouotovs
T pret
keyakn
15 kal) ¢€y

TUDE

ኣ

4.

[4

KatOLLeHOUS,

#.

ጫሜ

ToTé

N

éiToy

Ata

Toiay airiay €rebégnray, Kai ¥ Bu olay

cptpnray 5 5. Tdré einéy uo OtpuIX,
1
ጭዋ
Nn
Ls
#
ን
#
L,)
ን
ኮ)
መሓ
0 €iS TOy @yiay GYYéAOY 0S ker choy

airtay 15 epipnray Bei
5. kaiis einéy
kot ObpLHIA, 6 eis TOy yey QyYéA®y 6

lv Kal atr9s Jyeiro avr, Kat éiTey
kot Eyex, Tept Tivos cperTas, 1] Tept

ker €luog ay kai abros avr@y Jyeiro, kal

#

iP

2.

ላ

JEN

t

ፆ

c

#

mn

BEN

ላ

€

ን

[oye

መሓ

እ

ጦ

mn

#

eiréy (oul “Eydx, epi Tivos éperGs,

Tivos ¥rYv GAigetay @uorrovBeis #5
6. ogroi eirty T6y Grrépey {Tog oypavog

]] Tepi Tivos Tilyv &Xlgetay PXor rovBeis s

[

ii

e

\ኣ

t

#

ኣ

ኮ]

ጋ

Es

Ny

እ

ሓ

pig

ot TapaBayrés Tily €TTayly Toy KuUptoy

kai €Bégnay @Be expt To TAbSrau
kipta ¢€Tn, Toy Xpgyoy 5 TOy GliaprnuéTeoy
avr Oy.

7. Kdaxeigey

épaBevra

eis AXoy

Ld

#

e!

#

[as

Ld

ኦ

#

[A

iBeiy ove eikdra.,

ን

ls

8. Tre einoy 05

poBep9s 6? rdros kai es geuyos 10 Th
Gpdret. 9. Tare @rekpign uot 6 eis
T6y &yiey yyy 0s er €luog 1iy, Kat
eineéy uot ' Ev6X1)Butt Ti épolhi0ns otires
[ey

Ls

[4

ኦ)

[4

L

Bi)

OR

ፆ

[4

\

6é

oy Tovroy poBepaTépoy, Kat Tegéakuat

Tip éya €xei Katdeyoy

kal PXeyguevoy, kat Bakomily eixey 0
TOTos €as Tis QBvzroy, TAJpns Fray
ኣ

#

8B

6. obrot eirty TSy QGrrépey Tot oypayog]
[A
ot Tapafgdyrés
Tily €rtTayily To መሓ Kvpioy 5,
kai €Bégnray @Bée expt TAnpegiivat
ipta £7, Toy XDdyoy TOy GuaprniuidrTay
avr,
7. Kaxeigey €eሐagevra eis aAAoy
éoya poBepda’

€iXeéy 0 Toros €aS§ ils aBjvrroy, TAIIpns
6
ኣ
t
ቫ
[
4
OTUAWy TUDOS LEYaAoy
KaTapépouéyvwy
ovré éTDo0y obré TAaTos ” I6vyilgny
€

mn

ጥጥ

TOToy Toyroy cpoBebérepoy, kai Tegeauat
Li
#
6
ሓ
7
ጋ
ሓ
tpya poBepérépa
5, Tip
ueya
éket
Kav-7
)
evov kai PXeyéuevoy, Kat Bakorly
)

ሓ

[d

#

el

N

TUpOS

ኣ

Co

ኮ)

ly

N

[4

S

#

mf

4

Vd

U

éyakoy ' KaTacbepouéyoy"

=

Ld

Ouré

éTpoy ore eyeégos I9vwloly tSety ovre
[a

LA

F

5

#

})

[ay

Ld

eikdrat, 8. Tiré einoy Os poBepos 9
Tሪros obros 5 Kat as Betyos Ti opéret.
9. Tdré Qnekptgn ou Katኣ eirey . ..,
[4

ው

15

ኣ

L:

ኣ

ሓ

ር

[A

ኣ

1 E adds Skog, which goes well with Beeuevovs, and could easily fall out before
Guotovs,
PE

RI
beoy:

Jy),

Ct. Dan. vi. 16, 10.

See note Xxv. I of our text.

5 E = Toy GDguoy Tow luepey,

+ Gg: E = Tእnpogiivae,

ED

5 G2 FE = ueyegos which is better than
TAdiros as 15 clear from eérpoy which precedes.
2 E gives HYE; and thus agrees
with Gs.
in E = 9gvuvmpds.
u E adds Opal.
= Corrupt,
See note 41, D. 84.
BEE OE
OBE = rare.
» Corrupt. We expect réroapes.
= Ppolgepd.

ጽራጴል፡

7 Read

keydaey

with

። a. 8 reads ጸመሳ” ቅዲ".

loa 5 add ጸው

E.

= a

BTHEadSH.

SH OILS,

48

ie

bc dgeFhn add Rው" against g, a8 x. The word was wrongly
trans. here from its place after OEiጋ&h; where 1 have restored it as RIA; =
drexpigngy,
5 m omits.
5 g omits.

56

መጽሐፈ፡

ሄና

OOOO

ምንተ ፍርሃትክ፡፡ ከመዝ፡፡ ወድንጋቆክ፡ ወጸውሣኣኩ፡፡ በኣንተዝ፡ 7ፉም፡ መኣን፡ ወቅድመ፡
ገጺ፡ “ሲዝ; ሕማም’
10. ወይደቤለኒ፡ ዝመኣካን፡ ቤት፡ ሞቐሖመ፡፥ ሰመሳኳክት፡ ወህዩ፡፡
ዴትጸሐዚ፡ ኣስክ፡ ሰንሲም።
ጃኋጂ11. ወጻምህዩ፡ ሖርኩ ካልል፡ መኻ ወጸርጸዩኒ፤ በምዕራብ
*.ይደብረ፡ ዐቢዩ

ወ“ገዋኘ፡፡ ወ።ኩቸሕ፤

ጻኒ0።'

2. ወጸርባዕቱ፡"

መኻናት”

ተሠናፍያሻ።

[ወ]በውስቴቱ፡ ዘቦቱ “ዕሙቁ፣ ወርኒበ፡። ወልሙጽ፡። ጥቁ፡ (ሠሰስቱ፡ ኣምኔሆን፡ ጸሲማነ፡
ወጸሐቲ፡ ብርህት ወነቅዕበ፡ ማደ፤ በማኣከሳ፡ ኣቤ፡)። ከመ፡ አሙጽ፡ ተዘያንኩረዙር፡ተ'፡ ወዕሙሕ፡
ወ፣ጽልእመት፣ ሲነጽሮ።
3. ውኣተ፡ ፲ዜ፡ ጸውሥክ፡" ፉፋፉጵል፡ ጀ“ኣምኔ፡ ቅዱሰን፣ መሳኣኳነ"
ኣንዘ፡” ሀለወ ምስሌዩ፤ ወዴቤሰኒ፡ ዝ“መካናኝ፡ ተሰናያን፡ተ። ከመ፡፤ ዴይትጋብጽ፥ ደቤሆን፡”
“መናፍስት ሲነፍሶመ፡። ሲምጪታን፤። “ሎቱ ዝንቱ ተፈጥፉ፡። ዝዩ; ያስተጋብ፡። ዙሉ”
፲ፍሰ; ውሱዶደ፡ ሰብኣ።
4. ወጻሙንቱ መኻናት ገበ; ያነብርዎመሙ፡ + ገብፉ፡ተ። ኣስክ፡ ዕሰተ፡

ቫነጌሆሙ፡። ወ።ልስከ፡ ጽመ፡። ዕፎቓሆሙ፡

ወዕድቓ፤።

|ውልጻቱ፡ ዘየዓቢ]

ቫነኔ፡ ዐባዴ፡። በሳዕቤሆሙ።
5. ርጺኩ፡።” “መናፍስተ፣
ውኣተሙ፡ ወቃሎመ፡" ይበጽሕ፣ ኣስከ፡;" ሰማይ ወይሰኪ።“

iu.

m0

5 0 reads AH:

l8 read ምንት

8 add ውቲ:

dg omits next five words.

“ጻስከ፣ ጸዘመ፡”

ውሱዶደ፡ ሰብጻ፤ ኣንዘ፡ ሙታን
6. ውኳተ፡" ፉዜ፡ ትስኣልኳያዎ፡

5 0/18.

# Restored.

mu read &EርUትYD:

See note 46,D. 55.

* = ris

ogvms. CG has here ris Sewi)s. AS Ethiopic translators almost always rendered Seeyds
freely, it is possible that the translator of E had the present text of G before him.

‘ag,Ff 9,87 read OV:
79, race
BnO0VXD. Emu, 9% 1a read £0C: 0ቢE;
5 g,ae.
mu, cdl read 1TP4 LF BnOPXBITPD:
°F»). y reads ri R+3:
All other MSS. read thi Xr); except g which reads “hi R05
All MSS. which
write the numeral in full, put it in the acc,

“Yi

12, 8.

ag, y read esti

Here E = aot corrupt for koiእou as again in ver. 3.

read 0h; Ci;
w omits to AR

For 0h; 4 (5) read 0p:
inclusive through hmt.

Kaxoi Corrupt fOr KoiXot.

a reads

mg Bd

= mot 8. Zu read PAR:

5 Supplied from CG, Tpeis atr®y rkoretyo

kai eis boreuyds, kai my) arog dye égov arog kai eiroy.
058
Semhu,g.
7 g omits.
for Ta koteuara.

9,8 read AA’ ቅዲ,
cgBoBAN
=m.

8.

3 Fu,

i = TQ KUKNwuaTa COrLUDt
nag.
read RAL:

a0. 08 readH.
a, aeZt/,a read AA
nx At
g/u,B read wSYi / reads in margin AY: Here text =
See note 12,

5

8, a reads £#ቤW;

OE

abc gefF8 In xa read SEY; EA
9 ናስ; Iፍስተመ 5 መናፍስተ; ነፍሰመ፡
ዕ(2) 5 መፍናፍስቲሆመሙ፥
= ያ
ያዞ 8 read ምውት
“egw m reads YE:
h HE YE
as/s8n0(2) 5 rw Aሳንቱ፡ ያረg!ixa መ“ ኣሎንቱ፡ “ ልሎንቱ
7 mh 8-0. Fau,0 read ትፈTረi 9 ፈሪ
=
reads ANY.
5 0, Bread tt
0 g reads Ay.
» So all MSS. but m which reads YI; which is an Ethiopic
cmendation.
G which corruptly reads sroinray was literally reproduced by EK.

XRT 0 XIU. 6.

ENOX

57

kai €rrol6ns 2 ¥xai drexpign(v) : LIepi rovrou Tog polBepog (rሪnoy) kai epi Ti)s
ላ

[ei

[el

PN

Tpordyews ¥Tils Bewis*., . 10, Kat einey OUros 0 Toros SeruoTiptoy &yyéXey
Sges vvrxegiiroyraw LuéXpe €y9s]* eis Tov aigva,
ጦሓ

[a

\

[4

Ls

XXII.

Kexeigey

[ey

éሐiBevra

[ay

eis AAAoy

Troy, Kat ¢Beeééy uot ps
ላ

Bvruas

[4

AAO pos ya kai UNMXGy 5 Terpas rrepeés5.
3, kal Térrapes Tdnot €y
ary KoiXot Bégos 7 €xovres kai Aiay Aeiot, (Tpeis apr6y koretyoi kai els
Im

መ

=

ላ

mn

#

\

hy

SEN

gin

ጦ

ኣጥ

poretvos, kat nny VBaTos aya eroy avroy.

m

Kat eiroy

ገ 8

ላ

n

mn

)]

ኣ

#

ll6s Aeia Ta KotXokaTa

Tara kal GXoBagi] kat korewd Ti Gore.
3. Tdrée Qnexptgn Paሐala, 6 els
IN
Ep
=
Ls
ል
rey
5
ያ
መ
T6y
Gyieay
GYYEA®y
05
er i] eho(nnlv, Kaiላ einéy
ot Oro
oil; rdrot
otሩ Kolo
ya énurvydyayrat eis ayrovs Ta Tyeiiara TOy WUXOy TOy yexpéy, eis arg
Ly

Toro
N

[oy

\ኣ

መ

€ékpignray, @gé érvrvvayérgat Taras
L)

#

ጭ

ን

b

[A

Tas WvxXds " TOy aygpenay.,
N\

ኣረ,

[ey

ኝ

4, Kat

ፆ

ኣላ

orov oi Troi eis €érotyrxeru(y) ar@y €rou(0)mray 10 expt Tis jjuépas ils
Kpirews abr6y Kat Héxpt Tob BtopvgkoD 71 Kat Btoptruévoy Xpvoy, €y 9 i] Kits
[
[4
ገ
1] LeyaAn €rrau €y ayrois.
5. Tegéalha {éygprovs yexpoys CVTUYXLVOVTOS ,
kai ] peayy avrogt 15 expt To0 otpavoD TpoéfBatyey kai éveryyxayey.
6, kat;
Fn

€

ፆ

ኮ)

[ey

ግ

#

\ኣ

ን

[ey

[ei

[ei

>}

#

10

le

[my

€

[

[ey

\ኣ

1 E wrongly trans. before ai eiréy ko and changes into 3rd sing. See note 46,
p. 55:
5 FE = rie 6gvwns. See note 5, D. 56, and note 41, D. 54.
3 E = kai @Be.
« This phrase forms a doublet with eis Toy aiova. Here evos is a corruption Of aigyvos.
We find the same corruption in the LXX. of Ezek. Xxv. 15 ges évds. Radermacher
emends Héxpt aigyos TSy aiovoy.
2 E adds kai.
5 Here in genitive. But if we
follow E we must read rrepeds in acc. MS. evrrepeas.
7 E adds kai Tእdros.
° FE, omits,
For koreeyoi MS. gives evrkoreyot.

2 E adds roy vig.

0 The impossible eromray

is accurately reproduced by E. The ogroe oi Téros (also in nominative in E£) may
of course be a nominativus pendens.
nn E adds aires.
Text corrupt: also that of
E which = Ta myebiara dvgporey yvekp@y kai 3] bey) etre.

AS Lods has pointed out,

vers. 5b and 6 of G show that only a single spirit is referred to.
lost yea which i5 preserved by E.
kai ] pen) ayroy.
Bi none:
35 m omits next three words.

Moreover G2 bas

Hence read yeiua Gygporou vekpoy €yrvyXdyoyros

5 0,8,

ag omit,

x bc omit.

9 reads AB:

® 9g omits.
% These two words seem intrusions in E. They are wanting in G.
For HI30s of Z, all other MSS. read 3&5 9 omits next four words.
T= eos.
If the two

preceding

words are alien to the text, then ges was corrupt for ¢y &.

SFL mu, 8 read Yl:
5 mga. 2,89 prefix ©.
0 Better read as
suggested by G መንፈሰ; ሰብa፡ ምው እንዘ: ዴሰከ፡ ወያሱ፡ For ሙታ 3;of £9, # reads

EY}; other M55. PውታY a omits © before Paw against #8.
ውስት፥፡
= 4 omits next verse through hmt.,
“a. B~e read AY:
I

41 me reads
« PEAY:

58

መጽሐፈ፡

ሰሩፉጹስል፡ መልጸካ;

ኣንዘ።

ሀሉ

ቃሱ። ደበጽሕ፡ ወይደሰኪ።

ምስሴዩ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

XXII EN

ወኣቤሉ፡ ዝ“መንፈስ፡ ዘመኒ፡ ውኣጻቲቱ፡ ዘክመዝ፡

7. ወጸውሥመጸ፤፡ |ወዴይቤለ፤፡]፡ ኣንዘ፡ ዴብል፡ ዝንቱ፡ መንፈስ

ውኣቱ፡ ዘ“ወጽጸ። ኣምጸቤል፡ ዘ“ቀተሰ፡፡ ቃየን: ኣቶሁ፡ ወ"ይሰኪ፡። ኪያሁ፡ ኣስከ ሶበ፡
ዴትኘኝጕል፡። ዘርዙ፡። ኣምቅ.ድመ፡”። “ገጻ; ሰ"ም.ድር፡ ወጻምክዘርጸ፣ ሰብኣ፡ ዶማስጌ፤ ዘርሉዙ።

8. ውኳጻተ፡፥፡ ዜ፣ ትስኣልኩ፡"

|በኣንቲጸሆ፡ ወ|“በጻንተ፡ ተሹዜ፡" ተዙሴ፡” በኣጻንት፡ ምንሃ

ትፈልጡ ሄጀኣምኔ ፩።
9. “"ወዘውሥይኒ፡” ወዴቤለሲኒ፡ ኣሱ ሂተገብፉ፡። ከመ፡። ዶትፈሰጥ፡።”
መንፈሰሙመ፡ ሰ“ምጪታንጌ። ወከመዝ፡ ትፈእጠጢ፡። ሰ።መንፈሶመ፡” ለጻፎቃን፡ ዘ“"ውኣቲ፡ ነቅዐ;
ማይ; በባዕሴሆሁ፡ ብርህት።;።
10. በከመ ከማሆ፡ ትፈጥሪ፤ ሰጋጥጻን፤ ሶበ፡ ይመውቱ”
ወይትቅበፉ፡ ውስተ፡ ም.ፎር፡ ወቫነኔ፣ ጺ“ኮ፤፡ በ“"ላዕሴሆመ በሕይወተሙ።
11. በዝዩ፡”

ድትፈለጥ፡። ነፍሳቲሆሙ ደበ፡ ዛቲ፡ ዐባዶ፡። ጻዕር፡ ኣስክ፣ ጸመ፡ ዐባይ፤ ዕለት" ኣንት፡ ሹህኔ፡
ወመቸሠፍት፡ ወጻ0ር፡ ሰኣሰ፡ ይረኘመ፡" ኣስከ፡። ሲዓሰም፣ ወበቁል፡ ነፍሶሙ በህዩ፡። የጸበሮመሙ፡

ኣስከ ሰዓሲም፡

|ወኣመኒ፡ ውኣቱ፡

ኣምዋ.ድመ፡

ዓሰም።]*

12. ወከመዝ፡

ተፈእጠ፡*”

ለነፍሰ፡“ ኣሰ፡ ዴሰኻዩ፡" ኣሲ፡። ርኣዩ” በኣንት፡ ሐሰት” ጸመ፡። ትዋቁትሱ፤ በመዋዕለ፡።
ጋጥጓን።
13. ወ።ከመዝ፣ ተፈጥረ ሲሣፍሰሙ ለሰብኣ፤ ኣሰ” ጺኮፉ፡ ጻፎቃ፤፡” ጸባ፡”
ሣጥጻ።

ኣሰ፡ ፍጽማኔ”

1 Fomits.

ጸበሳ፡"

s a,a&.

reads phe; # pA:

ወምስሰ፡

ጸባሲያን፡።

Other MSS.readH.

ድከወ፥ኔ፡

ከማሆሙ

? FreadstሐውርC:i

“mm readsH.

5 Bracketed as a doublet of AH: £AA; 9,af§ omit.

ድወጽAi of a2, 8. £ reads RጽAi

smu.

908 read phi

ወነፍሶሙበ፡

2

' Em. from

"mn D0 5. 9 reads

23
5-505 2A: ። ቀ]; x ቃሌስ
" ayce/Bs no. agp (yx aon. nu
adds NH:
= / x read “JP
a adds ti » omits next six words through hmt.
it Fmg. furead AH 8A.
» a-gu. gu, 8 read 1A: 1 bcx insert p0AYYH: before
ውት.
m reads ትYስaልMpi
An intrusion.
» = kouudrey, corrupt for Kotoudrey.
0 Position of Wt; after the noun due possibly to the position of mdvrey in G.

add Ai
2m.
5 m reads YI;
ድፍልጥ፤

ሃ።, 8 ዴፍልጡ፡

read ችፈልጡ፡

25 Fu.

my#8 read ውታ

5 Supplied in accordance

ነፍስሙመ፡
% 0.
5 Em. from CY:

ZB

/u,8read “Ri
= a omits. &$In0y,ay omit the initial ©.
= m adds Ai
©.
5 0=G Xepiteaga. gm read
with G.

gH

SO

EE

URErNI SS

read

Other MSS. read WH.
a miu, B., £9 read yt: ድወት:
with G pore) (so Flemming).
5 # adds ወዴት ጋጐሱ፡

ws brackets.
ig Omts
5 Corrupt (2) for oን&NEPas

XXX. 145 Isa. xix. 3, &c.

ma. B prefixes ©.
7a. #3 read Ani
But Ie; = myetka in xv. 12; lxix. 12; xcix. 7; Sir.

”» 0 reads በቢይi

“Fu read 0A:

We should

read PRYረlmi
See note 90, p. 59.
5 Z omits.
5a-g. 9,78 prefix ©.
4 Ethiopic intrusion.
#2 mg, frB-ax. g/nuread TAT; ax ትፈ
"“#(/).
g reads H&Eስi mths
a, 7:8 read EAs
5 adds A before the next word.

RX GS:

|

Noénera 1 “Papa

Tv

ENOX

iyyeXoy
h

59

0s er

)

#

€éuog iv, kat eira atr® Toro

ወ

ey

e

N

ES

T9

p

ላ

(78 €yrvyXdyoy1 Tivos €gTiv, ops 3 ores 1 bevy arog npofBaivet kai
Evrvyxdvet | fas Tog obpayogli 7. kat GTekpign uot Aéyey Tobro T9 ved

Tyveila

eoTwy T9 €EeAg9y Qn) “ABeX By spdyevrey Kdey 6 agepds, kai ("ABI
€yruyxdyet epi bro expt Tog GToAérat T9 épua arog Gn Tporadroy Tis
Y]]s, kai &T9 Tog néparos T6y Qy6prey paytrg? T9 népua avrog.
8B. ‘Tore
[an

M5

PRA

አነ

3

pera

[ei

5 Tept

ላ

[4

en

[Le

ዓ

Ld

T6y

ፆ

4

5)

6ኛ

[i

KotAaudTey “ Tayray,

tg

ላ

\

Py

Tt

JZ

ን

[ey

#

ፕሪ

Ly

€Xoptrgmray

NN

AN

TE» GTO

Toy

€2ds?.,
9, kai QTekpign uot Aéyoy Orot oi frist 5 €rolgniray Xopitergat
TQ Tyveiuara T6y Vvexkpéy' kat otras (€JXepirg eis Tq yeiuara TOy Bukaiay,
0971 }Y yy Tog tBaros ¢y atr@' bor"
10. kal otires €xrirgn rots
GhapreXois 5, Gray Gnogdyoriy kat Tap@cty eis Tily Yily, kai Kpirts ovk €yewl0n én
airy €y» ThN (enbey ayréy. =
11, = @Bé Xap
XapiCerTat Ta Tyeyuara abréy eis Ty éyaAny
)
[my
€
In
ፆ
[ey
2
\
ጦ
Barayoy Tayrny, expt Tis LeyሪAns lueépas Tils Kpireas, Ty kariyey Kat TOV
Bardvey TSy KaTnpauéyey 5 XuéXpt aiéyos 10 iy Gyrandgorts UV Ty TyevuaTaw'
kei Bret airoys uéxpts aigvos.
12. kai oires €xXapirg Tots Tyevuarty T6y
ጋ
ያ
ey
ጋ
(0
on
3
#
ep
[ey
ኦ)
€yTVUyX@yOVTy, oiTyes €ypayi(ovruy Teplላ Tis
GTaAeias,
gray
cpovév0érty
€y
Tats=
Nuépats T6y GuapTreAéy.,
13. Kat ores €xrirgn Tots Tyevuariy T6y ay0pOray,
ር

[ay

Oot

OUK

ey

ኔ)

8

e#

€ZobTat
Ld

€rowrat uéToxot.

ኮ)

#

\

“ Otol

18

መ

2

GAAG GHuapreAot,

e/

2)

N

3

ፆ

N

Las

\ኣ

ፆ

Orou “ agéi3ets, Kat eT
Ld

13

ኦ)

[Ay

ላ

ጌ)

ግ

[4

N

Tay
ኣሓ

ን

3

Gyouwy
ኮ)

[4

Tit BE Tyeiuara [Ort oi év0dge OAu3évrés fAarroy KoAdcovrat] 1

1 MS. nperney.

5 Em. with E from Seo.

Thus in og... 3] paw) atroy we have

the Semitic idiom 2B «3.
See also Ver. 0; xvi. 15 XxXxil. 3.
5 E adds epi
atroD kai but wrongly, apparently.
5 Em. from kueuarey.
Lhe translator olf
found tuxrxehara in ver. 2 for a corruption of kotyéara preserved in G, and here

kpthdrey another corruption Of KoNokdreoy.
my aro Toy atovos.
Or Na ses 1,

2 Em. by Dillmann and Lods from

5 Corrupt. We expect Térapes.
5 Em. with E from roy auapreas.

7 Semitic idiom = 13 ,, AVN
2 E takes this transitively:

but it is to be taken passively as in Wisd. xii. 11; 2 Kings ix. 34;
10 Ei = expt aiSyos Kai.
kai 77s dyrarogdreas.

Matt. xxv. 31.

u So Radermacher emends from ny ayrarogogets., E =
iE
gay
» Add Sእot with E.
An explanatory

eloss.

* a. fPaehno(?) x8 read PAA;

Scd/ s/n

= £ reads AA
ወሲኣለi " ። reads PeAዩi
” cu read h(hnPAYi
5 dy. All other MSS. omit.
Am, mn omit.
55 m prefixes A.

= w omits.
5 7 reads

5

8B. Zu read £Nht;

ጻድቃን

rcad FRY

mi ENE

7 m reads AA

8 Fp g-anx,

0 m prefixes H

af an

read JDTAY

5. Other MSS. read AN:

EE

60

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛካ፡

XX I RXV

ጺትትቁትል፡ በዕለገ፡ ሹኔ፡ ወጺ“ድገገሥመጹ፡ “ጻምኔ ዝዩ።፡
14. ውጻት፡ ዪዜ፡ በረካ
ሰ“ኣንፓዚጾ፡ ስብሐት ወኣቤ፡፡ ቡኗፉሕ፡፡ ኣፓዚኣዩ፡ ኣፓዚጾ፡፡ ጽድቹ፡ ዘ 'ድመልኳ፡ ኣስከ፡ ሰንለም።
XXIII. ወኣምህዩ;፡። ርኩ
ካልጸ፡ መኻ
መንገሰ፡ ዓረብ፡ ሓጻስክ፡ ጸጽናፈ፡ ምፎር።
2. ወርጺኹ፡

ኣሰት፤ ዘደኔፎድዶ፡"

ዘ"ይረውፀ፡

ኣንዘ፡ ጺ*የንርፍ፡።

ወጺ“ድነትን፡።

ኣምፉፀቱ

መዐልት“ ወሴሊት፤ ጸሳ;። ከማሆሁመ።
3. ወ'ትስጻልኩ፥ ጻን ኣብል፡ ዝንቱ ምንት
ውኣቲቱ፡ ዘጸልቦ፡ ዕረፍት።።"
4. ውኳት፤ ፲ዜ፡ ጸውሥጸ፤ኒ፡ ራፐዜል፡" ጀ"ኣምህ ቅዱሳን፡።
መሳባኣኻገ፡ ዘሀ ምስሴዩ፡ ወይቤሰ፤፡ ዝንፒቱ;። ዘርጺክ፡። ፉጸት፡ ተወዝኒ፡፥። መንገሰ፡ ዐረብ
ኣሰ ዘ“ድሰፎድ፡። ውጻቱ፡ ዙሉ” ብርሃናች፤ ሰማይዴ።
XXIV. AYE
ር
“ኻልጸ፡ መኻ፤፡” ምድር፡ ወ“ጸርጸዩኒ፡ ደብረ፡፤ ሓጻሰት፡ ዘያንበሰብል፡ መዐልች፣ ወሴሲችት።”
2. ወሖርኩ፥ መንገሴሆ፡ ወ።ንጸርኩ፡። ሰብዐተ፡ ጸድባረ፡ ካቡራቱ ወዙቡ፡። ሄኣም ጻን
ዶትቹዊሰጥ፡። ወ።ጸኣባ፤፡። “ኳቡራ፤፡ ወሠና.ያ፤፡። ወዙሱ፡። ክቡር; ወስቡሕ፡ ራኣየዮመ፡ ወሠና ይ;
ገጾመሙ፡፥ ሂመንገለ፡ ጽባሕ፡ ወ“ጽኒዓን፡።” ሄደበ፡ ሄወኛመንገለ፡ ሰኔ" ጀፈበ፡ ሄጀወቈሳት።
ዕሙቅ፡። ወጠዋያሻ። “ጸሐቲ፡ ለ“ጸሐቲ፡ ጺዴትቃረባ።”
3. ወሳብዕ፡ ደብር ማኣጻከሎሙ፡

ሰኣሎንቱ፡ ወ“ኖኖሙ፡፣
0ጻወ; መዓዛ:

ዘይት ማሰሱ፡። |ሹሎሙ፡|። ከመ፡ መንበረ፡ ጸትራኖስ፡” ወ“የጸው.ድያዎ፡”

4. ወ።ሀሉ፡ ኣም።ውስቴተመሙመ፡

171m read iN

a. 8 reads NHI:

n AJHLAብሔC: only.

ውቲ
ዘዙሉ፡

“9 omits.

s m prefixes ©.
“ቫሉ ዚ.

ጸመ;

7a fphya.

s Before this chapter in # there is the superscription J; CA

" ። reads ርጺኩ፥

" A gloss? G omits. m adds

1 am.
mM, fB read ©.
PHI BEN XO
ig epee Tea ED
reads 3CS; 9,a iN:
i Fu. mgt, B read oy.
ls

1 abeinox,b trans. after mA against a,c gf 88 (»)y,a.

5 G2 omits.
=» a=g. lf this is right, it represents 7 before rps Bvruds.
a corruption of POE; as Flemming supposes. 9 reads Hii 8 H.
iE;

®* /°,8 add

B-eRphya read

So G AX. #Z reads Ai moi AA For next word 9 reads “Ps
7 ax read HAA0E:
#e9u,0. mt 8-0 read 0ረ€ትi
" N50

20 fF omits.

ጴነወ።ኒ፤

4)» read AIHLRብሔC: A3" ስብሕት

m5 repeats this and next seven words.

9, 8 add ስብሐት; ©.

ኣሰተ፡ ዘዴረውፀ፡ ኣንበለ፤ ዕረፍት፣
ዘዴድገነብር፡
w F100.

00; ዘ“ጸልቦ፡ “ፃሙራ፡”

with G exgtgkow,

“5 Em. from ft

superscription በAንY; SRC: ራን:
5 m reads H.

™» Bob omit.

™ ma omit.

[i

mgi read DORN;

«7.

Zuread 0p;

EL:

a omnis:

» Amy;

4 mg,

/' 02;

m/w

But it may be
5 Em. from

a AA: only.

5 g reads DitN

=» 0 reads AO];

ኸቡረ፡
"መ ያ።, 5-4, ድ reads ጸና];
add ወጽዓ}; against a, feFBtInya.

= # adds AE

this chapter £ adds the

5 ዞ reads Ri መnSYi

™» a. B reads CA

a-/ read ድዊልች፡
eu,lg.

7 Before

9, fs omit.
read PA

add ብረ:

5ያ,l8.

=»

8,

a2 read ረ:

5 mghB.

eu read

»። ጽሁና]; 4» ጽዓት
" agcox(5w)B
“9. All other MSS. read &ሳY: (#AY ).
“5 ፀየሙቃ1፡፡

8B. ድ reads ሰጸሐቲ፡ ሰ.

Sr.

m/w, B~a read

/። read ለሰጸሕቲ፡ ( + ጸሐቲ፣ ሣ).

XXL, II TXRXIV. 4.

ENON

01

airéy, o0 Tiuepngroyrat + €y Iuépa Tils Kpireas, oU% ul uereyepgScty evreiget.
14. Tdre Aya Tv Kiptoy Tis Bdéns, Kat eiva EyXoynr9s #ei, Kote 6 iis
Bukatoryvns 5, Kupteyay #ro0 aiQvos °.
XXIII. Kéxeigey ¢bagevra eis (LAAoy TUToy pፅs Bvruas *« T6y Tepdirey
BE

Fa

ን

[4

1

ኮ]

€

[4

[Im

ፆ

[es

Tis Ys.
ኦ;

2. kat

m

fe

cyAeirov

egearduny

#

To0

c

Bpdkoy,

#

Juépas

Ih}

\

Le)

L]

መሓ

ኣላ

[ey

ip?

BtaTpéXoy

N

}

kat

kal

el

vvkrs

oyk

6

Gvaravdluevoy

[4

Téa 5 Biaueévoy.

3. Kai

)

ove

ን

pda

Aéyey TE €rry T9 kul] €X0y GyTavrwi
4. Tሪré Qrekpign ot PayounX, 6 eis
TO» &yiay GYYEX®y 0s er €uog 1ly Obros 6 BDdkos Tog up9s TO pos Bvrkas
NAV Kays
nip 79 ZexBUGKOV erty 1 Tdvras Toys Pporrilpas Tog obpayo.
y
/
L
#
9
[4
as
ንጫ
ቱ,
i
€BétEéy
uot Gp
upsN Kavgluéya
»
.... VUKTOS.,
2, Katነ €néketya
ary
€nopeygny
Kai\
Cgearduny ETA Gpn €v8oéga, Téivra €xdrepa Tog €karépoy BiaእAdrrovra, Fy oi
መ
[ey
\
)
a
Aigo €yrultou T KaAXoy]] 9» Kat Tdyra €vrtua kai éyvBoka kai evebij, (rpia ém)
Gyaroxas
ya (ty)
él yaroy ($y)
€yi
VaTOAGS €or
€rTnptyuéya
(¢y €y TO9 €yt, kali Tpia
p
€y) €y€y TOTO €yi.,
Kati
8
ላ
=
im
mn
mn
pdipayyes Bageiat kat paxeiat 7, kia 7} ut ok eyyi(ovrat, 3. Kai [T® gpeu]s
€CBgoluoy Gpos &r uéroy Toray, kat Zirepeixey T% iNet Guotoy 15 KagéBpa gpdvoy,
kai TeptekVvkXoy BéyBpa avr 14 eveiBil 12, 4. kai ly €y abrots BévBpoy 0 oy8éLd
ኣ
ን
\ኣ
el
CF,
|fe
f
118
\
ንፍ
el
[ed
ToTé @rppavuau kat oygeis €repos avréy |erppdayvgn'
15, kai ovBty €repoy Gotoy
/

[ey

EF

3

#

ላ

9:5

L

in

0

ኣ

L

ጦ

[4

[ey

7 = nin ¥yJ.

+ E adds expe.

ኣ

\

N

ጦ

1 E = yatpegilovrat Or drogayovvrat.
This is supported
Matt. x: 28:
5 FE = kuUpuds ou, 6 Kiptos 77s Buxatoywns.
expt Tov aiovos.

ኣ

by xcix. 11; cviii, 3
=i the Worlds
Ei

2 E adds cpXeydueyoy.

5 Read dad with E.

Is the By corrupt for ny = « feeds, « nourishes2’ In that case we should

have a play on the name of the angel. See xx. 4.
5 Before kai insert with E
Kdkeigey ebogevra eis GiAXoy raroy Te Ys.
2 E adds Juépas ai.
70 Ei = ai Toys
እigovs €vriuove kai Kaxovs Or by a slight change the nom. can be read: see notes 35, 36,
Pp Oo
Er = xoNiats
5, An inirusions
| E (Le #0 BD) = verte (@ B20 p=
kai T9 Uyros) airy Toray Suota Tdvras but réivra iS an intrusion, and by slight changes
we

obtain

a text = irepeiXey airy

ghotov,

See note 47, D. 61.

13 MS,

avr.

5 E = eteoBn which is right. CE. vers. 4, 8, Xxy. 4.
5 Em. from vppaven (Beer).
Here airey is the object of the verb. But as the verb was wanting in the original

of FE, E rendered airey as though it Were ¢éf airey, thus making it dependent on the
subject.

For op8eis. . .air® E gives obey (Or oygeis) atr@y kai o0géy €repoy Suotoy ar® fhe.

5 mgy, 8. £ reads pei

“Pei

Bob
= imrepeixey ary.

a, B-B read rኖሙበ፡

። “Pei

“8.

mu read AA".

(Z ንሖን.

7 ለAንE

This final ሰ, which is in

all M55. T have emended unto H and prefixed to ተማ.
5 ድ read ትመ.
EY" should be emended into £YማሰA: Thus HEY = G Suotoy.
» 1 have with
some hesitation bracketed this word, as G, f omit.
2. m/w, Bread AYCIN:,

abcdek

mhFRInox.ay read 3

readHA. Bomits.

gu PN.

m adds በAIYi

gu. mt, 8 omit. *# reads 3TPራi

= m omits.

™ m reads Aoi

Sn.

glu

7 dy ready

625

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛካ፡

XXIV. ASTXXY. S,

ተወጺጀጸምውስቱተትመ፥
ወባዕዳንሂ፤
ዘከማሁ’
ዉጺኮነ፤ ዴዶዕዝ፡፡
ኣምዙሉ፡ መዐዛ
ወቁጽሱ፡ ወጽጌሆሁ፡፡ ወዕፀ ጺድጸመሄ፡ ሰዓሰም፡፤ ወፍሬመሆሁኒ፤ ሠሪ ድ፤ ወፍፌሬሆስሰ፡ ከመ፡ ጸስሣሰ፡
በቁልት።፡
5. ውኣት፡ ፤ዜ፡ ኣቤ ዝንቱ ሠናይ፡ 00; ወ፡ተ* ሠናይ፡ ለርኣይ፡ተ፣ ወጸዳም፡
ቁጽሱ፡ ወተፍሬሆሁኒ፡ተ" ሞገስ; ጥፃቁ፡ ለርኣዩ፡። ገጽ።
6. ውል
፲ዜ፤ ጸዘውሥጸኒ፡”
ሚኻካጹል፡ ሄኣም! መላሳኣክት፡ ቅዱሰን፡ ወካቡራን፡" ኣንዘ፡'፡ ምስሌዩ፡ ሀሱ ውኣቲቱ፡ ዘደቤሆሙ።
XXV.

ወ“ይቤሰኒ፡”

ክከመ፤ ታኣምር።

ሃኖሕክ፡ ምን
2. ውጻተ፡።

ትሴጸል፡“

ደዜ፡

በጻንት፡፥ መዓዛሆ፡

“ዘውሣኣሕዎ፡።”

ጸዞ” ሄኖሕ;

ሰዝ፡

ዕፀ: ወትጤናዩቅ፡”

“ኣን:

ኣብል

በኣንተ፡

ዙሱ፡ ኣፈቅ.ፎ፡ ጳኣምር፡ ወ“ፈድፎፉደ።ሰ፡። በኣጻንት“ዝሽ፡። ዕፀ።

3. ወዘውሥይ፡። ኣንዘ፤ ዴብል፡

ዝንቱ ደብር” ዘርጺክ፤ ነዋሣ፡” ዘርኣሰ፡ ድመስል፡ መንበሮ
ግበ፡ ድነብር፡ “ቅዱስ፡ ወዐቢዶ፡። ኣገዚጸ፡ ስብሐ ንጊሥ፡

ለኣግዚኣ፡።
ዘለንለም፣

የገውጻ፡”።

0ፀ;።

መዓዛ:;።

ፀባፎ;።

ሸኔ፤

ሰምድር፡

ጸልቦ፡ ሥልጣ"

በሠናድ።”

4.

ከመ፡ ድግመዎ፡።

ወዝንቱጀ:”

ጻስክ፣፡ ጸመ፡።

መንበሩ፥ ውኳኣቲ
ሶበ፡። ይወር.ፎ

ወጽጺጸሐዱ፡

ዘ።ሥጋ፡

ጸመ፡፤ ዴትቤቁል፡

ወ“ ይፌጽም" ልስከ፡ ሰንሲም፤ ሽኬ፡" ሲ“"ጻ.ድቃን፡ ወሰትሑታን፡ ዴትወሀብ።።

5.

ዚጸሆ፡

ዴትከል፡።”

[(
ዴቸወሀብ፡]”

ሲሣፉያን;”

1 m repeats. 9 reads Hh

HOH:

reads Ee;

ተሐሕዴወተ፡ተ”

ተ“ወመንገለ፡

መስዕ፡ቱ።=

an; See note 16, p.61.

smu.

#505 trans. before p%&”.

108 read በፈnት'i

ቫሉ

ኣም] “*ፍመ፡

9/1 read POW:

ፉበ፡።

HS

saa. B-a

read AY:
Add hi and trans. the next two words with G. 8 adds yp:
abgx
omit.
$s axomit.
? = eieugés. But eveges in G is all but certainly right. For ACA;

of 2m 8, we find ACXE; in 9%.
Corrupt for RLU = Sivgn avroy. See same
corruption in note 3. g reads eo;
1 9 reads ሙስ:
SFmhB.
g reads
ሰርዉዩ፡ ። ሰርዉዩ
3 a. #8 read ወው:
# 2 reads AD” mn DR and trans.
before AY;

15 (2 omits.

5 a.

So G. a, B-aox,p read ትRALI

Breads Hi

mn reads £LቤNos

"9 reads ለውAቹi

"eu.

» ao%y.

m reads ትይ;

Yጨድቅ; See note 6, D. 63.
a efi iInop(v,ab. abcgxread Ati
Z reads RAW
miu RR
5,8.
Other MSS omit.

9 8

= 9/58.
5 2 omits.

5 g reads DAN; mu AH: £ብNi
= 9/u, 8-0.
m0 (5) omit.
7 me omits.
Se (though with rare form AR"). All other MSS. add L.
5 # adds as a gloss

ጻግዝኣጻት፣ ማርያም ወቦ፡ ዘይቤ፡ ደብረ፤ ሲናይ፤
gB8I(0PNy»a BIR

in acc.
5 0 reads ወሰበ:
5 0 reads wSEi u omits.
Zm, n read 00: 9 00©;

9, ax. 9 reads jዋy፡ bce/። py

» guread መiበr; AለAJHLRብሔC: (Aኣዚኣ፡; “).

።# ©. ax add ዴመፀኣ፡ ©.
5
a. Bef read HYEi
‘fF YE

5 75, 8 add wg&i

ሥልጣን
ጣያ, 8, areads £2hስ;
ያ።, B-hob ዐበቢዴ፤ ድ as ኣለት ኣንገ፡

8 su omits,

was interpolated.

40 aim.

7m, 1B read

5 F omits.
3 FL m, hop read ዓይ
art. All other MSS. read ድችፌAም

» a= Tdge. 8B reads Wh;
5 » omits from 8£2PY; to A
next three words through hmt.
5 CG omits, and rightly.

when YOU;

= # reads

reas ይግውጻ፤
ts, 8,

5 Interpolated.

inclusive.
7 c omits
This preposition added

G omits.

# reads £YOY:

RR RRS

ENOX

68

air@" Gruily eixey eagéerrépay Tayray dpaudiTay, Kat Ta (PAA atrof kai 79
dyvgos Kat 79 BévBpoy ov pgiveti eis roy aigya’ oi Bt epi Tiy Kaonibvs eel
Borpves powikey.
5. rire eiroy O51 Kaxby T9 Bévgpoy Tofrd érrty Ka b
[ay
)
=~
LA
መሓ
ጦ
N
e6Bes 5, kat pata T& @UAAa, Kat T& Gy0n aro epaia Tj Spare.
6. Tire
4
ን)
/
A
ine
ኣ
in
Qrexptgn ov MuxaIX, eis Tay Gyioy
GyYY€AOy 05 er
cog ly Kat avr9s
5
airéy yeiro,
XXV. kai eimeéy ot Eyx, Ti €perés 5 (kai Ti egayuaas 1 €y
TN Gru] Tog BévBpov, kai 18d Ti XOéets Tilv GXiigetay ageiyei
2, rdré
መ

ይ

[A

2

[A

\N

ኣ

ጦ

[ey

N

€

t

})

መሓ

ኣ

t

arekpigny
aur® 5 [lepi Téyray eigevau géAw, udAra Bt epi roi BévBpoy
Totirovu bgBpa.
8. kai drexpign Aéyey Toiro r9 pos T9 VJnAdy?, og
z

ፆ

ll

ን

ሓ

Kopv@il Skoia gpdyoy geo, Kagégpa 1 €rriy ob Kagibe #6 uéyas kiptoss 6 éiytos
Tils Bens 1, 6 Barxebs Frog aigvos 1, gray kaTal3] éntrkédraggat Tily Yily ¢m
Gyag8.
4. kai Toro T9 Bévgpov etagias, kai obBeula apg €éovriay ¢€xe,
el

aya

ty)

መሓ

/

[es

[4

ፆ

IEF

Ua

Ate)

Le

[4

\

#

gat avroy expt Tils éyaAnS Kpiréws, ¢€y " 1] €KkBikLS TayTay Kat TeNeiwagts

Péxpts aigyos" Tres
exaexrois eis Cov
la

Ly

©

ያ

ጦ

14

Btkatots Kat ortos Bogerat.
. FO KapTOs arog Tots
eis Bopay, kat75 ueraሐbvrevgilrerat ¢y Tiny &y(y Tap8 Toy
ፆ

ላ

[/

€

ፆ

ኣ

hy 6

B

EHS

N

ን

[el

[a

ያ

1 MS. pgs.
5 E = 6 Be kaprs Kaእos kai 6 Kaprds.
is better.
See note 15, D. 61.
‘EE adds kai gyriuaoy,

5 FE, = eoeuBés but text
Pads He
5 his

interesting phrase = N3'%' Nayn. CL Dan. vii, 19. EF = dxpu3oie ageiy., Here the
kageiv 15 unnecessary.
Ct. Dan. vii. 19 (Theod.) where after sriirovy dxpu3as some
M55. add kageiy., The phrase has already occurred in xxi, 5 mepi Tivos Tijv dilgetay
@iaorrouvgeis.
lLhere E renders freely as epi Tivos depulgoie kai cpuorougeis.
See also
Dan. vii. 16.
7 MS. arexpeugn,.
5 E adds Aye.
5 E adds 9 eiges.
pe adds
atrot.
n Text confused. E = 6 &yeos kai 6 uéyas 6 kuptos iis Sdéns. 6 cupeos Ti)s Bdéns

iS Supported Dy RXV IB
= alone
NISei
rt Exide
This text
seems right save the phrase eis Colly= wn or possibly Kno corrupt for Nip = carat.
The writer had before him Ezek. xlvii. is PoN»2 ግ Yn.
“Thus the original probably ran Db Wino Kon n3a38)., Hence for eis (ev in text read érat. E which
= €k Tov Kaproy abroy Bogllerat rots exxexrois (en, kai eis (3oppév should be corrected

accordingly. Mr. Cowley suggests eis Bobéy may be a rendering of NSN» and of this
Rho may be a corrupt dittography. [f this is right, then the full stop should be
omitted after Boglerat and Tére . . . fBopdy treated as one sentence.

ፃ ወይትወUብi
The verb in the Aramaic was ning = fora of a corruption of which
eis (Ceflv is a rendering. See note 15, D. 63,
0 m reads AH:
2 A2ራ];
' #9 (= eis Coivp).

መስዕ;

All other MSS.

read ሐይወት; = (ai).

In either case the text is wrong.

ax

trans. h#" after

See note 49 and also note 15, D. 63.

529.
Other MSS. read mY" ስ;
Here E confounded sis Bopds = AAA: with
eis Boppy = mY መስዕ;
The © before መYIA; should be placed before YA:

We should prefix ©. See preceding note.
ዴተካል፡
= a. 3 reads hስ1:;

# adds }YIA; መስ):

90 (5) ,a 8 read

64

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

RXV BNR

መካን፡ ቅዲኗስ፡ መንገሰ፡ ቤቱ ሰኣገዚኳኣ፡ ንገሥ ዘሰንለም።
6. ውጻተ፡ ፤ዜ፡ ይትፌሥሑ
በፍሠሓ፡ ወይትሐሕሰዩ፡ ውስተ ቅዲስ፡፡ ወያበውጹዙ፡፡ “መዓዛ፡ ሎቱ፡፡ በ'ጸዕጽምቲሆሙመ፡
ወሐድወት፡

ብዙን

የሐድይዉ፡፡፡ በቷደበ;" ም.ፎር፡ በከመ፤ ሐሕድዉ፡

ጸበዩክ፡። ወበመዋዕሲሊሆሙ፡

ግዘን; ወ“ሣማም፡። ወባዕር፡። ወመቅሠፍሻ፣ ዚይገሠመዎሙ።*»
ሰጸምላሳክ፡
ወክ:

ስብሐት፥
ፈጠረ:

ንገሥ;። ዘሰጎሲም፡፤

ዴቤ:

ወርጺኩ፡ “መኻ

tሀብዎሙ።

።ኻልጸ፡

ጽባሕ”

ፎብረ፡።

ወ“ቦቲኒ፡።

ዘይነውሣ፤

ማይ;።

ኣምሽ፡።

የሕውር፡

ከመዝ፣

ጻፎቃን፡"

ሖርካ፥

ማኳክከሲ፡

ምድር

መገገሰ፡

መንገሰ፡።

ሰ"ን።

ወማጻክከሎመ፡፥
ዶደብር።

3. ወርኳኩ፡

ቈሳባ;።
4.

ዕሙቁ፡።

ወመንገሰ፡

2 Zw, B. 2 reads ይት

G has ai eis.

= py.

“ሰሰብኳ፡

ወaምህዩ፡

2. ወበህዩ፡ ርጺኩ፤ ደብረ፡ ቐዱስሰ፡ ወ።ሃመቸሕ፣ ፎደብር፡ ማይ

ወ።ሃውሕዘቲቱ፡”

1 0 prefixes ©.
በውስ

ጸስተዳሰወ፡

XXVI.

ቡፉክ፡ [(ጥሴሲ፤]። (ዘቦቱ ዕፀወ)= ዘቦቱ ጸዕፁቁ፡። ዘ” ዴነብር፡ ወዴሠርፀ፡

[ኣምዕፀ፡;። ዘ“ተመችረ።] =
ጻመንገሰ፡።

ጻስመ፤

7. ውጻተ።፡ ፲ዜ፡ በረካዎ፡

« # adds ማሣደር

See note 5, D. 68.

£በውጽ
= sireaeirovrat

ጽባሕ

ወ“ጸልቦ፡።

ረሕበ፡

ፀረ"

ሰዝ;።

» “J;

2 Fg, 0

ካልኣ

2 F reads

b= kai MVvovrat Or eiroirovee

miu, B-0p read PR:

as 1L conjectured

መንገሰ፡

which may be corrupt for

in 1893.

2 gH
= Tv gouly

arog;

for it seems that we must here take A"Ei as a rendering of airog, just as in
xlviii, 0 fraps = airév (see Dillmann's Zex., col, 23). m, B-ax read FE: 3H:
uw 3H:
For Ei ax read 0g;
7a, $n. PBR’ read 00.
5 wu reads

ብዙጋን፡
5 F reads tht:
10 0,8. mu read £0;
1 m reads hp;
ዞ የሐዴዉ፡
5 ሆaባባ5s በፉበ፣ ምድር
5 a reads Ya;
11 a. 8 reads DRX;
g trans. 04” after my".
» £ reads KEY.
1 u prefixesD.
7 miu Ba.
#9, Xap read AATHR:
£ reads YLvi 9 AJL;
” 8, n. These two M55. alone
preserve the strange order in G dygporots Ta rotaira Buxaiots., All other MSS. read

nH: ሰሰ" ጻ£".

A late (7) hand adds A before RE in £.

0 g omits.

Eh

Ethiopic gloss inserted asyndetically in # mI, caf BRI». G,9 omit. apeyFox,ay

read TA;

= Deliberately (?) omitted by translator of E on the ground of the sense,

thoueh possibly it may have fallen out in E before HE

3 ain, f. m8
5 # omits.

መን".

read RORY:

5 2 omits.

5 ax read YY

8 ዘመን".

a0,

ala,

u wu reads Ay".

5 gu

read AA; AC:

= 9,8.

ድሃ read ሕሳባት ። ሐሳ

A.

See note ro, p. 65.

/ adds marginal glosses ሐዋርያት; and #HቢYs
” c omits.

9, Bala read ጽሑ

ቈያሱሳት (sic).

5 aim.

m reads

” 9 reads ውሣHY

5 9. All other M55. read hvH:

5 Fu. mgt Bread Ook;

0 B, a reads AAs
J£. mg/w read CAግበi abox ብ;
ceFBsIab ሣግ;
4 ራጋኻብ፡
5 Em. with G gv airiis from NeEii of 9. # reads PAE:
Other MSS.
ባቲ፤
5 0 reads gti
1 9 reads AH
‘0.

3 trans. after th against a, (2).

" m reads ዓራ4ብi

XXV. BTXXVL. 4.

ENOX

65

oikoy Tog geo 1 BartXéas # ¥roD aiavos 5.5 6, rdrée eybpaygilroyrat eibpawd3
IN [4
=
ን
ሓB
eyot Kai\ Xaplloyrat
kai#EU P=¥eis ToNd(tytoy eiceevgoyras’
ai3 gruai
¢y5 ToinN s
py[4
k ላ tro}
Grréous avr@y, Kai Cily TXeioyva 5 (lrovrau én Yils ily €OMray ot Tarépes oy,
EFL
See Es
[4
[4
hy
1
kali €yie] TaisI) Jépats
ayréy
kaiላ Bdirayvot
kaiላ TAyai ላ kaiላ drrtyes
ovx
GVovrat
ary.
7. ‘Tare NoAGYNa
7 T6y geoy Tis Bdéens, b Ty BartAéa ¥ro0 aigvos 5,} 0s
bi
[4

መሓ

ጦN

Mroikarey

¥aygoarots
0

avrots.
XXVI.

Kai

€

TQ rovaira

Bixatots ?, kai avrd €kTtgéy kai eiéy Bova

[ey

exeigey

#

¢paBevra

m

መሓ

eis

i

T9

uéroy

Tiles

14

[Lo

iis,

Kai

[I

{Boy

Toroy

ካXOyMuévoy, €» © r6évBpa €Xoyral TapaሐbvdBas uevoyras kai BXaorovras [Tog
Beévgpoy ékkoréyros] 10,
2, Kaxet Tegéauat pos fiytovu. Vrokdira Tog Gpovs
Bop €€ @varok@y, kai Tily {Bvrevt 1=# eixey ps ydroy,
8, kai (Boy pos
ን

#

[4

[ei

ሓ

[Ad

መሓ

[ey

Gvaroxas
5

dAAO

pos

UYMXGrepoy

rovroy,

kai

&va

uéroy

ayrog15

bdpayya

ሓ

Bagestay, ove €Xovray TXaros, Kat Bt avriis tBep Topevyerat ፫ (VUrokdTe
VO TO
pos.
4. kai pos Bvrhés Toyroy &XAO Gpos Tarétygrépoy avrog kal obk €Xoy
6

[ey

ን

Ld

[#

1 E = kupiov.

5 MS.

and perhaps rightly.

ላ

3

BN

Baevs.

ey

/

5 E = aieoriou.

[1

$E

[A

trans.

ገ

lL

\ኣ

\

after @ytoy,

? E = eis ry fytov kai (#9, 00. m/w, Bob omit) AMVovzau iv

Qouily a%rot, but, as we have shown (note 5, p. 64), it can by an easy emendation

brought into line with G.

be

Otherwise the two versions may go back to the Aramaic.

Thus G= ah Ny» Kup and E rw hy) Enp2.

The next words are

somewhat in favour of the text of E., éy rois Goréos
also = eis €avrove.
“This latter meaning suits the context.

aire
= Nni5ግ3 which
This seems to require

us to read #3 before Js,

7 M5, TvXoymray,

5 E = aiaovtoy,

5 This order is

preserved in E. See note 19, p. 64.
io ‘This sentence is difficult. roy Beévgpov
€exorévros Can only be interpreted of Ilsrael.
Hence if they are genuine, Seygpa
€Xovra cannot be.
So the translator of E may have thought and so omitted
rendering Béygpa SXoyra.,
If roi Béyfpou éxxorévros is original, the text may refer
to the participation of the righteous descendants of Israel in the Messianic kingdom
in Palestine.
Since, however, the trees here spoken of as having shoots are
again referred to in Xxvii. 1 Y .. . mTእipns Bévgpey, we conclude that the Sevgpa
are original, and that og BéyBpoy gxxorévros is a disturbing gloss, which introduces

symbolical meanings into a non-metaphorical passage.

Hence 7 have bracketed it.

kevoveas

and

here

which

‘living

seems

to

be

nw E adds

a rendering

wai.

of "ip,

s Corrupt,

5 Better air®v with E£.
K

be

rendered

E = gvow which

so

may

is ght,

06

መጽሕፈፉ፡

ዛኛኖ፡

XXVL. ASTXRXVIIHL. .

ይደብር፡ ወይቴሕችተ፡ ሎቱ: ወጸልቦ፡ ኑሐ፡። ወ’ቁሳ፡ ታፓሕቱ።። ማጻከሎሙ፡፡ ወካእኣት፡፡’ ቈሳ፡፡
ዕሙቕ ወዴቡስ፡። መንገለሰ፡ ጽንፈ፡ ሠለስቲሆሙ፡፡፡
5. ወሉ
ቈሳት፡" ዕሙቃት
ወ“ጸልቦን፡;። ርሣበ፡። ጸምኰዙሕ፡

ጽኒዕ፣ ወዕ0; ጽ“ዴተክእ፡፡

ሳዕሴሆን።"

6. ወጸንከርኩ፡

በኣንተ፡ ኩዙሕ፡ ወ“ጸንከርኩ፡። በኣጻንተ፡ ቈሳ፡ ወጥቁ፡ ጸንከርዙ።"
XXVII. ው”
፲ዜ፡ ኣቤ በኣንተ፡ ምንት ዛቲ ምድር፡። ቡርክት፡። ወሹሰንታሃ፣ ምልጻት፡። ዕፀወ; ወዛ፣”
ቈሳ፡ ርጋምት፡ ማጓኋከሎሙ።
2. ውጻተ፡። ሠ ጸውሥይኒ፡ ጽርሌል፡። ጀ።ኣምቅዷሰን፡
መሳጻክት።

“ኣንዛ;

ኣስክ፡ ሰንሲም፣

ሀሲሰወ፡።”

ቃለ፡። ዘ“ዚ“ይዶደሱ፡

በቅፎመ፡

ወይቤለኒ”

ሹሎመ፡

3. በደኃሪ"

ጻፎቃን፡

በከመ፡ ከፈሎ

gu.

ዴጻቲ፡።

ለርተማን

“ላዕሲ፡ ኣንዚጸብሔር፡።

ይክውን፡

ሳዕሴሆሙ፡

ሹሎ፡

መዋዕሰ፡

ዝዩ፡። ድባርኳዎ፡።

ይደ

ሰዕበዩ።

m,abcdeFnox,ab read ri

* / reads ZhትYi

2 mu.

9 reads nai

ቈላት፡
of ZF.

71 9. 2 reads በP2pYi
miu, 8 read "AY
uw reads BAY;

5 0 reads AAs

a.

ወ“ቱሎቱ፡

ነገርኩ”

“NV

ርኩ

“መን1N;

9 hi

ስብሐ"

58 LrD

2

ads ጽእቦ

“ng, a prefix ©. / reads Aha;
ax

nAAY'Y:

and trans.

before tt:

abc read Ji

u wu reas

geFhRInox ay ግብ;
Z,e read H.

gm, a read ተል:

abcde/Fehloxays APs

a

Bc

All other M55. 0whY;
s Em. from ሰ;
rm, 8. tu read wAስቲtሆY;
ay.

® Added in accordance with G.

15 gw, B-a= G ebvreiero.

ምሑራን፡”

XXVIII.

/ B-a nANY'i

By» read ቈAE:

ጸርጸያ፡ ቫነኔ፡ ዘበ፡

4. በመዋዕለ፡" ሹገኔሆሙመ፡ ዶባርኻዎ፡ በምሕረት

5. ውኳጻት፡ ዪዜ፡። በረኳዎ፡፤ ሲ“ጸገዚጸ፡

በከመ፡

For &A; / reads BAY

ጻምዙቸሕ፡

በጸፉሆመሙመ፡

መዋዕእ፡

(ለዓሲለም፡]»።

ሰ“ኣንፓዚጾ፡ ስብሐት“ ንጌሥ፡“" ዘለዓለም።
ወ“ዘመርኩ;”

ዝባ; ። ርኘገምጎ፡፥

ኣለ፡ ይብሰ፡

ወበ “ኣንተ፡” “ስብሐተ ዚጸሆ፡። ዴትናገፉ፡። 0ዕፀብት፡ ዝዩ ያስተጋብጻዎሙ፡

ወ።ዝሽ፤፡ ምሸሹናኒሆመሙ፡።”

ጽፎቅ፡

ምስሴዩ፡

ዝዩ፡ ዴት'ጋብጽ፡

"9 omits.

7 a.

0p];

" u reads

All other MSS. omit.

hn

read በላOሌሆን;

» m adds በAንY: bth: ወጸንhርኩ

በጻን፣ ቁሳባ፡ ወጸንክርኩ፡
nc prefixes ©.
ጋ ያዞ
add ል፡
= tu read
ሹፉክት ("ክት
= ድ reads ምልኣት!
= 5 trans. before ANY g/D8Ia read ፀው;
5 adh read DH:
n prefixes ©.
ag, e/htIn. 9g, apcdx,a read KራሌጵR!
ዕይ()» ትፏሌል፡
= a. 8 reas መሳካት ቅዱሳን
።” ያ. ያu reጓd ጸም ሀሱ
FB HIN;
» ax omit.
™ a. PB read HBA: a HUN:
* 8 omits.
before RP
a % trans. after HX
* 9 trans. after HARE:

=» 9 trans.
» 2 omits.

5 # reads በብሐtሆi

/wB read

7 9 prefixes Hai

* abgtx omit.

aw.

Pfs
Perhaps both forms are corruptions of pnp ams = oienrilptoy.
“8B prefixes ©.
x Bracketed as a dittographic rendering of sis ray firayra Xpvov.
w prefixes H.
SFL. m, FB read Ht:
gu HH
5 w prefixes ©. 4 adds

በምጨሕረት፣
= Fጀኳ. fom መሓርያY; G gives Soegeis corrupt for eiregeis.
read AJHLRብሔC:
5 9 prefixes A.
“0. miu read mp".
8

sf, Badd RHs » gy read ATHLRብC:

Jw; ስብሐትi

# anx
ወበመዋ".

” a, ge/p tn be)akh.

OO

ENOX

67

Nros, kat pdpayya Bageiay kal énpay'1 Gv ueéroy abr@y, kai GAAy pdpayya
Bageiay kat €npqy €T tikpey T@y Tpuay (6péey.1
5. kai X¥rarat ሐdpayyéss
eirty Bagetat * €k Terpas repeéGs, Kat BévBpoy ovk €pvrevyero €n
ጋ

[A

3

£)

#

©

ኣ

14

ን

2

[4

i)

avras,
ን

6, kat

[Uy

ላ

Cgatiuara # epi Tils pdpayyos, kai Aiay éegayuara.
XXVII. kais eiroy
Aa Ti] YR] airy ] eoAoynuéyn Kai TRra Mons BevBpey, airy B¢ 3] ቁpdpayé
KEKaTnIDahém] €Tiyi 5 .....
3, Yi]? Kardparos Tots KékaTapauévous €éoTiy expt

aiérvos.
@Beé €rervvaxbirovrat Tdyres 1 oi KexaTlpaluévou1 oirtyes $ épogrty T9
FTouaTt avréy Kara Kvpiov bevy &anpemn]], kai epi ils B6éns atrog kእnpé
[4

#

ን

[ey

\

AaMjrovrty.,

@Be

ፆ

N

)

errvyvaxgrovrat,

AN

kai

Be

\ኣ

\

\

grow

መሓ

[i

16

ን

መጦ

[ey

T9 oiknTiiptoy?,

ኣ

8. €m

ጋ
[4
ኃመ
oka
ሩ
#
10
ፆ
[ey
ኦ)
ፆ
nN
crxXdrots
airy,
Fey Tatsመጫ Juépats
10
Tils kbireas
ilseS hl&AMguvils
€vayrioy
TSy
Bikatay eis Tov finayra Xpovov, @Be ébAoylovrw oi evefBeis'i roy Kyptoy

i]s Bdéns, Tov Baruaéa ¥rog
evAoyIlrovrty
ን

1

€y
ዓ

€Xéet, @s
z]

#

ሩ

aigvos15,

€lueptey
ግ

[4

4, éy Tats huépats Tis Kpirews abrey

aurots.
ን

[A

5, Toré NvAoya
[e

ህ

#

Toy
ኣ

Kyptoy Tils
#

ኣሓ

Bdéns, Kat (TYy Bdéay1 avrog Bera kai tiuvnra keyaxorper®s.
XXVIII. Kat éxkeigey éropeygny 75 eis T6 uéroy 14 MavBof3apd 15, kai toy ary
ኣ

nN

#

Le

+ Instead of this phrase E reads rokdre.

2 MS. roe papayyes.

adds

kal obk €Xovat TAXaTos.
“ Add with E epi T@y rerpay tai egavuara —[ost through hmt.
SE
TUTE
2 Add with E rére mexpign OVDUIA, 6 eis Tay dyiey GyYEAey, 6s er
€uog By kai efrey,
7 A transliteration of KN’. The translator of E understood it

rightly as = pdpayé. It is similarly transliterated in Neh. xi, 35; Ezek. xxxii. 5
as Ye in 2 Chron. xxviii. 3; Ezek. xxxix. 15; as yai in Jos. xviii. 165 Ezek, Xxxix, 11.
Before

YM add with E airn }.

5 MS,

reves.

5 Ei = Kpurilptoy atr@y.,

E may

Bes GOFEUREI
See: otey,3 05.05 60:
10 E = grat i) Spares. Thus E makes the
sentence begin with this verse, whereas G makes the first half of this verse part of the

sentence which immediately precedes.
pos GyaroAds.

“EK

MS. aegets.

™ E= aiowmos.

adds roy Spous, which G wrongly omits.

5 FE adds

See note 3, D. 68.

» A faulty transliteration of Rao, more faulty as BaHgnpd in xxix. 1. Lhough
Nግጋገi) is Aramaic it does not prove that the original was Aramaic; for መEé
= madbard), which is an Ethiopic transliteration of the same Hebrew word ai»
in Jos. v. 6, implies an Aramaic form. For other forms see Jos. v. 65 xviii. 12
kaBBapirts Or uaBgapires. lhe Greek translators were often Aramaic-speaking Jews,
and introduced Aramaisms probably unconsciously.
apcx

ስብሐት፣

read YIChi FE:

ኮiore

we may suppose

to

air9 = NE:

5 ድ reads AH:

Ei

Since G gives Tilyv S6fay atroy eBilaera we should

Then

that Tijv Bdéay was

5

Em.

restore

ስብሐት: Ei = jv gsfay avro5 (ct note 6, p. 64); or
with

lost in G

and

airo

G

from

HhChs

ihma

subsequently

changed

9g reads

YHhncርhi

68

መጽሐፈ:

ህኛኻ፡

RTT

RXR

ጽባሕ ማኣክሳባ፡፡ ለደብረ መ.ድበራ፡፡ ወርፏክያፇ፡ ገዳመ፡ “ወባሕፒቲተ።’
5. ምሱኣ፡ ዕፀወ;
“(ወ)ኣም ዝንቱ ዘርኣ፡ |ወ |"ማይ፡; |በ4ዕሉ፡|፣ ዶፈሰፍእ፡፡ ኣምሳባዕ።
3. ያስተርጳ፡"

።ከመ፡ ሰረብ፡" ብዙሣ፡ (ዘዴሰርብ፡]" ከመ“ መንገለ“
ዙሰሃኒ፡

.ዐር7፡።

ተማዩ

ወጠሰ።"

XXIX.

መስበ፡ መንገለ:
ወኣምህtL:”

ዐረብ፡ |ወ |"ም

ሌርኩ፡

ውስት፡

ካልኣ ኣም መ.ፎበራ፡” ወ።መንገሰ፡ ጽባሕ፡። “ለደብር፡ ዝንቱ ቁረብኩ።።”
ርጺኩ፡ ዕፀወ; ተሹነኔ፡። ተፈፎፋዶ፡።” |ቈስቍ-ስ፡]=” መዓዛ” ስኒን፡። ወከርቤ፡
1 G omits.

sg, ax read MANAi—a slip in the former for MANA:

መኻን

2. ወበህዩ፡።
ወዕፀውሂ፡”
° 9,y read

Aደብር፡
ሪa ደብሪ:
G omits ብei but this range of mountains is referred to in
XXIX. I, as Lods remarks.
“=. m9 read መብደራ፡ ። መብዳራ፡
መድብራ፡
a transliteration Of the Aramaic N18 15.
su.
mgt read © if! omits) EE:
Fp

በሕቲተ፡

ወባበሕ፤

5 K = mo Tay repudrey kai,

(G has kai dm) TSy repudrey,

and this is preferable. In both repudirey seems corrupt. lf we assume the original
to have been Aramaic, G = Ny
which may be a corruption of Nግ\BISY = kai
dry rob Spovs.
“This is the mountain referred to in E and G (xxix. 1) and
in the preceding verse in E.
Or G may be a rendering of hye corrupt (7)
for ny (ct Dan. i. 12, 16; Mishna, KL. ii. 2; iii, 2), which would have been
better rendered by ai purevhdirey. If Wwe assume the original to have been in
Hebrew, and adopt the order in E, then E=byN» which might possibly be
a corruption of bs3yyግ = Breen.
Lods has suggested that Von is corrupt for

oA = « and sown fields,
bracketed A

ወጻምላሳ"

7a.

as an interpolation.

5 በሳ". 9 omits.

(i.e. pepguevoy) of G.

9,18 read AAO

Since G omits 1 have

® = dyvoufgpogy.

= vege.

2 Ff

m, /s read

10 = (paevdueyow which seems a corruption of cpatpduevoy

9, c05 prefix

to #N".

un.

m reads Aስራብ፤

9/። ከመ

ጸስራብ፡ 8-805 ጸስራብ፣ ከመ፣ 8 0,5 read ጸስ” and trans. hm: afer ብዙ:
= Bracketed
as a gloss on ሰረብi According to Flemming / has the sloss hm: ብዙ: HNC:
on this word.
5 m prefixes ©. Mai = &s. This redundant use of es without
anything corresponding to it in the Semitic is found also in 2 Chron. iv, Io es ps

GyaTokés Karévavrt= FAY Delo nap,

'* a ጻባd5s ጽበሕ፤

15 Interpolated in E owing to interpolation of HNC:

ያ ኣምኻልሃ፡

above.

s Em. with G (dvdye) from Zu $0C3:

5 m prefixes ©.
ax read Atk

m»/ $3C7:

9 £0C7;

ax read 0g@;
5 Em. from Ei A; with G. / adds in brackets HHUA:
Before yi FE interpolates APL
(see note 20). [ have obelized yt; as
corrupt, but the corruption already existed in the Aramaic since Wwe have tgap
in G. In no case can it be said that water ‘ascends.
Aoain Ai i.e. Spdcoy
shows that we require some such word as « mist or « vapour’ The exact phrase we
need is found in Ps. cxxxvy. 7; Jer. x. 135 li. 16, i.e. DRV3 Rayo which the LXX
renders Gveiyety vepexas in each instance, and the Targums by )3y poi» in all three.

XXVILHL. I XAXIX. 2.

ENOX

C9

cpnuoy kai avr9 udvoy,
2. TAIpns Bévpev teat ang ru repudireovt 1
iBep 2 Qvoulpogy 3, Rivogev
3. cpepduevoy “ @s UBpayays BayiAys ? @s 0 #rpos
Boppy €i BvruSy 7 Tévrogey ¥avdéyet TUSupf kat Bpdroy $.
OS BER PRD
exeigey 9 eropeygmy eis AAoy Tnoy Fy T9709 BaB8npd 17, Kai's os
QvarTokas Tog 6povs Tovroy @xXduny,
3. Kai1s (Boy Kpirews 15 BévBpa yéovra 15
Gpoudrayv AuBdvey 16 Kai Cuypwns 17, kat Ta Béygpa ayréy uota Kapyats 15.
1 E = Gr) TOy rephdrev ai. See note 6, D. 68. G2 and E only differ in respect
to the position of ai. Neither text is intelligible. The corruption must lie in
Frepudreay.

5 E adds sy arg.

2 Em. with E from ayouigpoy which gives no good

sense.
4 E = patvguevow, but G is right. MS. patpoueyvoy.
5 E adds 9s SBpayeyei,
s See note 13, p. 68.
7 North-west, A Semitic idiom. Cf. Hebrew nay» MSY or
Nay» N35 in this sense.
5 E = dvdyerat U8aop kai Bpdeos, but by a slight change
in vocalization becomes = G. See notes 18, 19, D. 68.
3 E = kai exeigey which it

has trans. into previous Verse. See note 20, D. 69.
1) E = dry ro.
ee
note I4, Dp. 61.
15 EF, corrupt.
5 E adds sxei.
= NO\ግግገ which (as Beer
followings Praetorius points out in ABbok. 9. Psewg. ii. 286) is corrupt for Rn.
Hence we should have etegn instead of kpireas.
® E corrupt. See note 28, D. 69.
15 = nap.
7 =,
MS. Zuvpva.
5 E, omits, unless we suppose kuaskuas
which occurs without any sense in the preceding line to be a corrupt transliteration
of capvats Or kapvikoie = ገ.

See note 29, D. 69.

MS. Kapoms.

1 therefore conjecture that in 5 (= SBep) we have a primitive corruption of 35y.
KE wrongly trans. this word before apt: and replaced it by ©. T have restored it
to its right place with G.
“ B-0. # ads መብድራ፡ መ ምመብዳራ፡
ያ መብደራ፡
u መብዳራ፡
ዕ መደበራ፡
5 Fm. with G from Hof.
All other MSS. omit.

5 Fg, ho (ny. Other MSS. read ጽባሑi = a-mngu. mg read ደብረ; HU. ። AE0C; and
adds በዝንቱ; afer ቁረብኩ፤ /, 5-8 0 read ለውጻቱ፣ ደበር፣ #8 ወውስ1፡ (# ውኣቱ) ይ".
5 wu prefixes ©.
28

5 m adds L.

= Tእéov corrupt for véovra.

9 reads ©.

T= kpirees.

Perhaps &F

here was originally

See note 14, D. 69.

ፈደ;

= mእéoya (Svra. We should read iE;
5 ድፉ መ eas ቍሦስቍስ፣
ያ ቈስቋበ፡
u ኸስቂስ፡
5 ቈስቁሰ፤
This word is an intrusion if G is right. In any case it is

unintelligible.

As it may also be hihi

it is possibly a corruption of NCO: =

Kapvats Or Kapvots = IEW Or i) both of which may mean the almond-tree or the
almond-nut. Since this word is found at the close of the verse in G 1 have supplied

it in E in acc. after ትሰ
0 # prefixes ©.
a ag, Bo. g reads hi:
fo, de7F8Inya Hስሒi ssc(w)x AN".
5 a, gt%Inya. abex 00k
< i
#05 08ውY: » 0g©Y: Flemming thinks that in E and G there is the loss of a word
signifying fruit; but I am not aware of any balsam-tree which yields nuts.

70

(መጽሐፈ:

yኖy:

RXIX,. 2 TXRXXIL.

ዴትማሰሱ፡ (ክርካዐ።)
XXX. ወላፀሌሆ፡| “ላ0ሰ፡ ኣሙንቱ፡ [ሳ0ለ፡] ተይደብረ፡፣
ጽበሕ፡ ክኮ፡’ ርሑዋቁ። ወ፣ርጺኩ፡፥ “መኳ ካልጸ፡፡ “ቁሳ፡ ማያት |ከመ፡ ዘጺዴይትዌዳ]።”
2. ወርጺኩ፣
00; ሠሪዩ;። “ዝይመስል፣ 0ፀ፤ መዓዛ; ከመ፣ ኣንት፤። ዘ"ሰኪኖን።"
3. ወ’መንገለ፡ ክንፊፍ፡። ሰቈሳት፡። ኣሎንቱ፡ ርጳኩ፡።” “ቁናንሞስ፡ ዘመዓዛ;። ወ“ፉበ፡
ኣጻልእካፒቱ፡። ዋረብኩ፡።

ውስቴተሙ፡።
ወ“ክልእበኔ።።

መንገለ;

ጽባሕ።

XXXL.

ተይገሥልዎ;።” + ለውጻቲቱ፡
ያ.

“ልላ:

ጸ.ባረ፡”

“HO;

ዕፀወ፡። ወዴወፀጻ፡” ኣምኔሁ፡”
ከመ፡ ኔቁጥር፡” ዘ“ስሙ፡። ሰረራ፤።
2. ወ“ዷበ፡ ውኣቲቱ፡። ደብር፡ ርዉኩ፡፥ ደብረ፤ ካልጸ፡። “ወውስቴቱ፡ ዕፀወ፡

ዘሀለዋ;። ተወጻልኩ፡። ተዕፀው፡ ምሱጻን፡

3

ወርጺኩ

a=

ፍመ“

፲ead “ማሰል፡

ዘከመ

ክርካዕ፡። [ወ]ተጽፉዕተ።።=

ይሄዴስ፡። ጳምዙሱ፡
/። ጴይትማሰል፡

ጸፈው።

3. ወሰበ

XXXII. ወxም.Eሣሪ:

8 ጴድዶትማሰሰ፡

2 See note 29,

p.69.
* A dittographic rendering Of tai eméeewva Torey, For AON; #, a % read
ወበሳ". Before AOA; 4y prefix ©. For AOA: AYE: of £, we find in m Zw, ef BR Inoa,b
4" Aሱንቱ፡ or ኣሎንቱ 9 ለጻሱ፡ ።9ረx ላ" ልሳን
* Corrupt (0) for ቀረብኩ = xu.
COR
RENTS
PE
OLS YB DrehX DH addS PE
a
IND
read CY;
7 c7D8Inopbag omit.
* 9 reads in nom. u# NS; AN:
° au.
ሠ ተሮas ቈላት፥ /። ቈሳገ፡ መያት፥ 5 ቈላሳት፡ ማይ
10 Bracketed as a gloss. For

ከ;

m reads hoi

9 hi

« omiis hi

H.

For £YE" 9 reads £Yዋ".

um prefixes H. au omits next three words through hmt.
Hvé i m wai
Since G omits it may be an intrusion.

መዐዛ:

§ ወመ3ዛሁ;

reads ማANሰ:

«8 omits.
15 mhu.

together with fA following.
=

Di” hoi XO

a

5 g/ omit.

ZF reads Wiéሁi
5

15 8 read ሲሴ".

/። Nንፊፎmi

5 NiéሆPw

» HAY:

0 8.

» m reads AቁA'E:
2

RB,
au.

== Emréketya TOUT ey,

Ng Feads
i reads

iy
9 omits,

a prefixes @©.

5 9 prefixes ©.

A Be

prefix H.
5 a, fPekn (ew). Other MSS. read AN: ብረ;
EUR,
a BR Iopy(5 wy ,a 8 read Hoi ውስቴ'E: 9 Hf; ውስt7;i aycx Hoki
F974.
# omits.

Other MSS. read 0ፀውi

ድወፀኣi

‘ HE".

GC = ROP:

8 adds ይ: RBA;

of three letters now erased.

5g omits.

0ፀው;

5 m, a omit.

g reads

/ originally added ይ; and some word
Nig.

RVR

a Tea RETC:

# ኔቄጥሮስ፡ "£; =, 90 ቅጥር » ነቅ". 8° 18". መ omits.
» momitss
=F, guy
m reads Nስውራር፣ 957» 0 ሰራራ፡ ። ስራረ፤ a ፀረ/ይsx ። ሰሪራ፡፤ # ሰራራ፤
» መሪ. ያያ

4ይ ዕ 5 ከልእበኔን፡ ። ከእበኒን፡ ረ/.። ክእበኔን፡ ። 9 ኋ ክልበኔባ፡/8 ክልበኒን፡

= 9 reads ወከልል፡

5 Observe that G is quite different.
It gives the habitat of these trees~—the furthest
east, but not their name. F supplies the name.
Here UAዋ: (8. mgu,F/8Inoyay

read RAT:
éእሪn.

/, epcet ATi

a AAዋ:

d omits together with H) of course represents

But adn here is not ‘the common bitter aloes used in medicine to which alone

the name is given in classical writers, nor yet what is commonly known as the American
aloe; but ‘the modern eagle-wood, a precious wood exported from south-eastern

XXX, I TAXXRNXIL. I.

XXX.

ENOX

71

Kal FETékeya 1 Toray Xu = DOS &yvaroks 5 uakpdy, kai iSoyv Troy
\ኣ

Ly)

ኮ)

GAAOy | uéyay', bdapayya tBaros £2
#

FXiv®,

3.

Kat

)

}

Ta

Tapa

ኣ

ኣ

Ta

[a

3. Ey 9 kai BévBpov 5Xpdas Gpoudray Guoioy
®

#

[nN

XeiAN

ኣ

[i

Tay

4

Ppapayyay

Tovrey

3

Lov

X

[H

“Ktvvaliaouoy

Qpolkdray" 7 kal #eréketya1 Torey QXdulyv Dos @varToxkds.,
XXX. kai (Boy
AAG Gpቫ Kai €y ayrois (An BévBpoy, Kai €KTropevdkeyoy ¢€£ avr6y 8s wexTap
T0 KaAoVheévoy appéy 9 Kai XaxIBdyn 0.
2. kali €réketyal T6y Gpéay Torey 11
{Boy GXXO Gpos (Tp6s GyarToAs TOy Tepdrey ils Yils1 15, kal Tdyra T& BévBgpa
TAJOnS5 FTakr]s1# €y GuotduaTt GuvyB Ay.
3. Gray TpiBeoruw?, B)15 eveoBérrepoy
UTED Ey Qpeoud[ Tay], . ee,
XXXII. eis Boppéy 17 (nos GvarToxas?
1 See note 51, D. 48.
== QXdunv.

SE adds o.

2 E has ei

(= Son) which may be corrupt for Pew;

«FE adds deydoy.

5 E. = kai iSoy BévBpoy Kady.

5 E = Guotoy.

Xpda may be corrupt for XAéa (Radermacher).
" See note 21, p. 10.
*E adds @s.
=
= nan.
im E = gxeivoy,.
5 This clause defines the habitat of
the tree. E omits this, but gives the name kai €y air® Béyvipa éAGns.
5 Tndeclinable
as in xxviii. 2.
XxXxvii. 25; xiii.

11.

A Em. from egavrne. E corrupt = reeds.
grax] = 52 Gen.
It also translates PORN, “iy, FlB2 JED, In the: XX:
See

HOLE
DS TY
5 E = እdBew, and adds gxeivoy roy raprdv, and connects this
clause with what follows. That for rpiBerw we should read ayer, see note 40,
Bik

i PrOnits:

TE = kai er

Taira 74a dpouara eis Boppéy 6p@yv Uréb Ti Sn

the first five words of which were lost through hmt.
Asia which yields a fragrant odour when burnt’ (Fncyc. Bob. i, 1so=121).

In Hebrew

its form is Dion (Num, xxiv. 6; Prov. vii. 17) or SPR (Ps. xlv. 8; Cant, iv. 14—
in the last passage N of the LXX

form is NON.

For hE;

of a, 78 1 have read 0g
together

with next

word.

and Aquila render it by dAdn).

. . . HUA: 7 reads nA:

with 8/5.

In Aramaic the

08@; HARAT;

For 090:

5 Read if; with G kai mdvra.

7 After Po

equivalent is found in REO: three words later.

a word

is wanting,

G has egavrns,

d omits

but its corrupt

Since R00 = creeds

it is possible that both egavrns and Zrepeds are corruptions of raxry)si;

for raxry) 15

used as a rendering of the perfume nionN—which designates also the trees mentioned
in the text. Otherwise the corruption might originate in the Aramaic.
Thus
€E atrils= Mil5 corrupt for NB.
5 1 take these to mean almond-trees, not almonds,

5 See note 38.

1» = MdBeogw airdv.

But iAP;

may be corrupt for 3h Pp =

TpiBerew. lf my identification of this tree in note 35, p. Ho, is right, we might expect
Kavrerty here, as eagle-wood exhales fragrant odours when burnt,
Now Tpigerty =
hppገs (Pael) corrupt for hp2T, = aire.
Hence we should read ውOP; in our
text.
3 An Ethiopic gloss?
5 = BeArtoy grat.

79

መጽሐፈ:

ህኖ:

XXXIL. r—5.

ኣሱ፡ ጸፈው፡ ሰመስዕ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ኣኔጽር። መልዕልተ፡ ጸድባር፡ ርጺኩ፡፡ ሂጸድባረ፡ ምሱጻ፤
ሰንብሳተ። ቅፎዋተ፡፡ ወዕፀ መንዛ፡ ወ“ቁናንሞን፡፡ ወፐፐሬ።’
2. ወኣምህዩ፡ ሖርኩ
“መልዕልተ ርኣሰመ፡ ለኣልኩ፡፥ ጽፎድባር፡፡ ኣንዘ፡ ርሑቅ፣ ውኣጻቲቱ፡ ሰጽባሕ። ወኘለሰፍኩ፡" ጁበ፡
በሕረ፡ ጴርተራ፡። ወጻምኔሁ፡ ርሑቅቁ፣ ተከኮንኩ፡ተ። ወሕሰፍኩ፡ መልዕልተ; ሰ“መልጸህ፡
ዙጥዬል፡።”
3. ወመባጻኩ፡ ውስ ገነተ፡ ጽድቅ፡ ወርጺኩ፡፥ ክከሕክቲሆመ፡'፡ ለጻልክቱ፡"
ዕፀው፡ ዕፀወ; ብዙጋኃ፤;" ወዐቢያ፤፡ ዴበፉሱ፡” በህዩ፡ ወ።ኣንዘ፡ ቆናሆመ፡ ሠናድዴ፡ ዐቢያን.።
ወሥኖሙ፤
“ብዙግ፣ ወስቡሓን;። ወ“0ፀ;= ጥበብ፡ ዘጻላምኔሁ፡
ሰጥበብ፡ ዐባዶ።
4. ወዴመስል፡ ሐመረ” ጽራኣ፡። ወፍሬሆሁ፡

በሲፆያሙ፡፥ ሇያጸምርዋ፡።
ከመ፡፤ ጸስካሰ፡። ወዶን

“ሠናይ;

5. ወኣቤ፡።

ጥቁ;”

ወጴናሆሁ፡

ሰውኣቲቱ፡

00;

የሐውር”

ነዋጋ፡።=

ሠፍይ።ሽ;።

1 (#17) u reads ERC:
° a,y prefix ©.
2. 9 reads ሰንበልት፣ = ጸንበሳት፡
Other MSS. ሰI0AYI
“2. mI, agceFysx a read PED: 5, 9/1505 ድው

sag.

9,8 read Ogi

7 # reads TTራi

Ens 8-an.

cfinog ie;

9, a read ቀናንሞስ:

። tናምሞY

5 = €ri Tis (ikpas TOy Qpéoy ékeivey,

። ቀናንሞ;
" G adds

ጥኽs ንግሩ.
0 8 add ገች
ዛያ. ፀሣ read ሊር". መፀ ሌርትራ፡
5 Corrupt
for Chi
GO reads Sxduns.
5 F omits.
1 G omits.
5 a, B-ageFnpy.
ay ad ዘጥሌል፡
ና ዙጤሌል፡
“ሃይ ዙጡ.
15 2m. g reads ALi
/ yn.
ሠ, ክዕከሓከ'". aያረካኻሕካሕ . ና“ ክሕከሕ".
8 ክሕኻ'. ። ከሕክሃ". /.። ካሕካሀ.
9, 4
read AAA;
5 g omits.
15 5,8. Zgu read ብWyi n/n ብዙ»;
5 F reads

ዶበቅሱ፡

1 # omits,

= mg prefix ©.

5 ፀ reads ስቡሓን፤ ወብዙጋን፤

መ adds

ወጥበበዝ፡ ዓሰም
1 u, 0b read 08;
5a
m reads hei /, gF4Inyx as መረ: « ሐሪ

#18 read $A.
7 9 reads ጽCA:

PORNO
5 m reads

ኣስካሰ፡

0 9 aባd5 ጥቁ

1 0. » reads

a ag.

SoG.

g omits.

B trans.

£በጽሕi Heref m u add asyndetically AAR; against 9 and G. The next stage in the
corruption of the text appears in #, B which read thውC:i ድበ;
RO
# reads HPA; 9, ~። 1H;

kai.

= ITY

” Add hi wih G.

ax omit.

” wn omit.

1 E = Bevhpa eve8n a free rendering.
5 Ei = meh
5 E = akpiy dro Tovroy
‘ E adds roy ayryeAou.
2 M5. eእgay.
5 E takes uaxpdgey as governing

the following words in the genitive.

7 E = pvdueva.

If Sve hey 1s right, then

T) BévBpov ie (es should be inserted before kai 79 Seévgpoy iis cppovijrees.

But the

evidence of Xxiv=xxy is decidedly against thisi for according to Xxiv. 2-XXYv the
tree of life is in the neighbourhood of the chief of the seven great mountains.
Now
these mountains are in the NW. but the earthly Paradise is in the NE. xxxii. 1,
Ixxvii. 3. The passages from the Zohar quoted by Laurence and subsequently
adduced by Lods and Lawlor in support of Sve bey as the true reading do not
necessarily support their contention.
[hese are according to Laurence, D. xxix
(vol. i. Parasha n’Nግ3, D. 37p, ed. Mant. et Amstel): « Sanctus et Benedictus sus-

XXXII. =5.

Tegéauau

ENOX

€nrq

Opn TX

y5

ydpBou Xpnrog

Kat

Xivoyl

kai Kiyvauduoy

kat

Trees.

3. Kai éxeigey epdbevra érnt። 2 Tas QpXés [ TabTOy ] TOV ODéwy Toyray, Lakpéiy
Qaréxay pos GyaToXés (Tis Yils', kal Buél3ny €ndve ils €pugoés gdAarons, Kat
re
SDN
iN
(
i)
7
BRD
OXGIy
XE’
"AKDoy, Katላ Gng
Toyrou
5 Bé[Bny
€erdve
5 Tog, ZerUlA: . 8: Kai
[oy
ኣ
[el
1]Agov5 ps T9y Tapdgetroy ils Bukatorywns, Kal iBoyv Fuakpdgey T&y
BévBboy
8
ToUTey 5 BévBpa TXeiova kat ueydእa Bye uty' €xeisS, ueydAa ሐogpa Kaxs
kai €yBoéa (kai ueyaxorperi)1?, kai T9 BéyBpoy ils ppovllrews, og10 €ergtovty
[A

ጦ

Py

[my

#

Cn

yioy Tog Kapnog aprog1 10 kai erigrayrat pdm
ueyaእny.
4. guotoy 176
BévBpoy ékeiyo rpolBtAéa 79 Nos, T4 B¢ PyiAAa arog 11 keparila 15 guota, 6 Bt
መሓ

መሓ

[ey

[A

KapTOS atrog rei Bdrpves
TUppa &n6 Tog BévBpoy.
MN

ን

tulit eum

[ei

€

ላ

14

(Enochum)

QluTeAoy iXapoi Aiay, )] B¢ gril aro Bérpéxey
5. Tdre15 einoy (051 Kaxby T9 BévBDoy, Kal @s
2

[4

€

ኣ

ፆ

ሩ

N

3

N

ን

[ey

4

ex mundo, ut ipbsi serviret. .. Ex eo inde tempore liber

tradebatur, qui Enochi dictus est. In hora qua Deus eum sustulit, ostendebat ei
oma FEBoSiforia SuBrema, ostendebat ei arborém vifae meg im forfo, folia ejus

atque ramos”

Again (vol. ii. Parasha 2%3, p. 85°):

‘In Enochi libro narratur,

Sanctum et Benedictum, cum ascendere eum jusserit et omiia ei ssipersorum ef
Z7feri0rum rYenoruim repossforia ostenderit monstrasse quoque arborem yifae et
arborem de dua Adamus praeceptum recepit, But these passages refer not to the
Ethiopic but to the Slavonic Enoch.
In the first passage the italicized words oma
rcpotforta Suprema refer to Paradise and hell which are described in vii, iX=x of the
Slavonic Fnoch.

Moreover the next italicized words, arborem yifae medio sm Boro,

are an actual quotation from viii. 3 of the same book. his tree is in Paradise
according to Slay. #™. viii. 3 but in the neighbourhood of the chief of the seven
Ereat mountains according to the Eth. Jn. XXiv. 3-Xxxv. In the second passage
the reference Of siifersorwm ¢f nferiorum rernorum repoisfort® to Slay. Jn. Vili=X iS
still clearer than in the first: similarly the words arborem vsfae are derived from the
Same source,
On the other hand what are we to make of the phrase arborém gs
gua Adams Braeceptum recht? It may refer to Eth. Eh. XXxxvi. 3-6 since there
15 no mention of this tree in the Slav. Enoch. But the conjunction of these two trees

in the Zohar does not necessarily imply that they were represented as together
in the Paradise of Adam.
If the Words arborem de gua Adams praeceffium recep
reler at all to the Eth. En. they are sufficiently explained by xxxii. 3-6. We have
already shown that the phrase arjorem yifae medio sm fhor#o 15 from Slav. En. vin. 3.
5 E adds eie8n.

5 Can

the Greek before the translator of FE have been eveigy?

Ti s0, it is a corruption of the eie8n found in E after sei,
MB '°* sT,

See also xviii. 1; xxii. 5,8.

0 =the Aramaic idiom

This clause is lost in E through hmt

though the order such a loss presumes must have been different Such as: Suotoy (5
Qcvgpoy €keivo . . « Goal keparia.

® MS. epare.
L

EU

74

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኖኻ፡

086; ወ“ከመ። [|ሠናይደ፣፡ ወኮፎሠውሕ፤ ርኣየቲ፡።

RXNIT EBARNXTV IR

6. ወጸውሥመጸኒ፡ “ፉፋጴሌስል፡ መልጸካ፡ ቅዱስ።

ዘምስሴዩ። ወይደቤሰኒ፡፡ ዝ'ውኣጻቱ። “089; ዘጥበብ፡ ዘኣጻምኔሁ፥ በልዐ ጸቡካከ፣ ጸረጋዊ።
ወጻምክ፡ ጻቤራዊት'" ሓጻሰ፡ ቁደመሙክ፡ ወጸኣመርዋ፣ ለጥበብ፡ ወቸፈገሕ፡ ጸዕይንቲሆሙ፡
ወጸጻመፉ ከመ፡ ዕራቃኒሆሙመ፡" ሀሰዉ፡ ወትሰዱ፥ ኣምዝነት።
XXXIII. xy
ሖርኩ፡፥ ኣጻስከ፡ ጸጽናፈ፡ ምድር፡ ወርኩ፡፥ በህዩ፡። ጸራዊተ፡። ፀበዴት፡“ ወ“ይችቐሰጥ፡”
ጀጻምካልጹ፡'፡ ወ“ጸዕዋፍሄ፣
ዶትዩሲጥ፡። ገጾመ፡ ወስኖሙ፡፥ ወቃሎሙቾ፡ ዶትቹሰጥ፡
ጀጻምኻካልእሉ።፣

2. ወ“ጽበሖሙ፡።”

ሲ“ኣሰ፡።።

ጸርቹ፡።

ርዚኩ፥

ጸጽናፈ፡

ምድር፡

በኘበ፡

ሰማይ፡ ዩዐርፍ፤። ወንዋሣወ፤ ሰማይ ርሣዋት፡።
5. ወርጺኩ፡።” ኣፎ፤ ይወጽጹጵ፡” ከዋክብጊ፡
ሰማይ ወጐሰቁ፡። ዘኳም፤። ይወፀጽ፡ Jገዋሣወ፡ ወጻሐፍኩ፡ ሹችሱሉ፡ ሙባጻቲሆመ።፡” ለሲ“

በ"ኮልቁሙ፡።

ወ“ጸስማቲሆሙ፡

በደርሃመ“።

ወ።“ምንበሮመ፥

በከመ፡። ጸርጸዩኒ፤ ዙርዜስ፡። መልጸኳ፡” ዘምስሴናዩ፡ ቅዱዷስ።።

ወደዜሆመሙ፡፥

ወጸውራኒሆመሙ፥

4. ዙሉ” ጸርጸዩኒ፡" ወጸጻሐሕፎ፡"

ሲገት፡። ወዓደ፤ ጸስማቲሆሙ፡ “ጸሕፈ፡ ሲነ“ ወት ልዛዞዘሙ፡። ወ“ ማሣበራቲሆሙ።።”»
XXXIV.
ወኣምህና፤ ሖርኩ፥ መንገሰ፡ መስዕ፡ በ“ጸጽናፈ፡ ምድር፡ ወበህየ፡ ርጺኩ፥ ምኽረ“ ዐቢዩ

1g omits.
NA’.

* Omit wiihG, 9.

opm,

ምስሌና

*9,&. 2iu, 8-94 read mመN"” ዲስ: t. » ቅዲስ:

“7 Jos add UA

2 ax add Hh 086;

B78 0 add UN;

a trans. the UN; before

reads H.

7 9 reads HYE: » 'H.

5 0 omits.

s / mu, 8 read 08: 9 00; OH.
° /(2) read RCጋE;
10 Iu, apc dehilnx,a.
Im, FBRob read AEN: 9 RQ:
g/w, 8-DcBIXYD. Fm, BI UD) a read “PEP
0c Pia
5 2 adds at the beginning of this chapter the superscription Jf;

ርጳዩ፡ ሐዋሕሐወ፡ ሰማይ; ኣምንኝበ፡ ዴይወፀሉ፤ ከዋክብት ወኘበ፡ ዴወፀጽ፡ ነፉሰት፣

= ። omits.

is # puts in nom.
5 9 reads ትዋ".
5g omits next seven words through hmt.
17 m reads DA.
5s wu prefixes H. 4 adds B ምኻ
5 » adds DጸOዋY:
ዴትዌሰጥ፡ ገጾመ፥
= ያያ. ድ rads ጻብሑሖመሙ፡
5 በጽበሑሖመ፥
= #8 reads ጻልቱ
5 a. #28 read AራEY;
BS PAFBL gu apc gereadit0: NEY, SBOE OD RY.

iy Teads (CAPY:
ደሃ’ read ጐልቁ፡

= ድ ads ወኣቤ፤
» ለቀ

0 H reads PRA

ዕ ጐልቅ፡

5 8.

ፀኣምህ ዘ. ። በጸምጠ

5 0. ሠ rad መዋጽሊሁ፡፥

B PBRAD

a, gFBHRInOXa.

m omits.

5 a7m.

m, [3 read XA.

ከመ

5 mI,

against a, ¢.
8 reads WN:

Sg

B OmiS,

ትYaዛዛLtሆPa
5 Z reads ©.

BL

5 m reads በቢ.
Z reads AC"
g/1a

Semin.
5 miu, B.

/' ሙጻጸቲሁ፤

abcereadB.

nc

reads

BD).

mr NH;

/፡ ሙጻጸቲሆሙ፡

° m,gho,a read 00.

= y» reads D0.
27,8. mu read
Re.
55 Be trans. before ጽር

g,F° read UN; ቅዲስ:

“ 3 adds ሲች

7 m0

Z reads በAምyi

omits

8 UN;
together

aሐhé; ሲYi

5 ድዐሁ
መህ read ምሣበራ.
i aim, mM, FB read mine:

» a-u.
with next

9 omits.

8 ምፃባራ".

wu omits.

four words.

Sie

iB reads

ሃ። ads ወምፇባራ".

XXXIL BTAXXXVI. 2.
mn

#

eniXapt r Th bbe,

ENOX

79

6. Téré rekpign “Papa,

6 fiytos giyyexos 6 er éuogሓ

av Toro 79 Béygpoy ppomlrews, ¢é og ¢payey 6 arp

row.

1 E adds Kay kai before this word.

ወስቡሐሕ፤ በጸጽናሪሃ፣ ለሹላሳ። ምድር።
2. ጦብበህዩ። ርጺኩ፡ ሣዋግወ፡ ሰማዴፎ፤ ፍቱሓተ፡፣
በበማይ፤ ሠሰስተ፥ በበጀ“ኣምኔሆን፡፡ ድወፀጽ፡፡ ነፉሰት፡ በመንገሰ፡ መስዕ፡ ሶበ። ዴነፍሕ፡
ቍር፡ ወበረፎ፡ ወ"ጸስኘኘ፤ ወኘመዳ፡። ወጠል፤ ወዝናም።
3. ወጻምጸሕቲ፡ "ኖሣት፡
በሠናድይ፣ ዶነፍኙ፡። ወሶሰበ፡ በክልዬሆን፡” ንዋሣጦ፡ ዶነፍኙ፡ ተበኃድል፡ ወበጻ0ር፡ ደክውንኘኝ፡
ዲደበ፡ ምፎር፡ ወበኘዴደል፤ ይነፍኙ፥።።
XXXV. ወጻምህዩ፡ ርኩ፤፥ መንገሰ፡ ዐረብ”
በጸጽናፈ፡ ምድር፡ ወርጺኩ፡'፡ በህዩ፡ ሠሰስተ፡፥ ሣግዋሣወ፤ ሰማዶይ፡" ርሣጎዋት፡ በከመ፤ ርጺኩ፡
በምሥራቅ፡።

በጸምጠሃ"

ገዋሣወ፡

ወበጸምጠሃ፡”

ሞባኳቲ።።

XXXVI.

Ayt:

ሖርኩ መንገሰ፡ ጸዜብ፡ በ“ጸጽናፈ፡ ምድር፡ ወበህዩ፤ ርጺኩ፥ “ሠሰስት፡ ገዋሣወ፤ ሰማዶ፤።
ርሣግዋተ፡። ወይዴወፀኳ፡ ኣምህዩ፡ ተጸዜብ፡፥። ወ።“ጠል፡ ወዝናም ወነፋስ።
2. ወጻምህዩ፡
+ # reads ft;

afi

= 0 omits.

? 2 places as a superscription to Xxxiv. 2 the

words: J; CA: Jp4; 1tሰYi
«7 adds C4ግዋYi on margin.
SI,
B read AP
5 m, 8. am read BAN:
7m, 8B. 9 reads በማሰ
fu mመYIAi
Hoy. m adds oYNC;
s 7 prefixes ©.
0 apcdeFlxa,
mf, BRnotaw)s omit.
0 gu, B. mg omit.
un m omits.
FIR
CR/Ina. m,HFabgeFox

Bread li

clause is corrupt probably for 3A;
ወበጻ0ር; of £7, 8-05, m read ወ4OC:

hRiEሓi

” a. 8 reads gps

“ This

Fier: ወባ0C: ዴnውy: £0; PECs For
9 0&0;
o(:)5 40C:i av x read በ40:

ወበኘድል፡ instead of 0# 04.
15 fF read AA:
5 For this word together
with the next five d inserts a clause from xxxvi. 2 Oቢyና: CX FJPሣoi ሰይ;

Cግዋ1; መንገለ! ጽባሕ፤ በጸጽናፈ፤፣ ሰማይ፤ (observe that the last two words occur first
in XXXV. 2) and then repeats this passage with the exception of the last two words.

7 a, nu(o). 7, B~u omit. For the next word 9 reads CAP
Enoch does not see the East till Xxxxyi, 2, 3.

ጸምጣኝ

" # reads በጸምጠጣኒ፤

1 መAAE: ።# በጸ;
ኘዋ' ሠሲ" ወሰማዶ፡

ያ ወጸምጣ፤

1 £,n.

m reads TARE:

ወፀRE: 5-5 ሙዒኝ (or A) FE:
5 0 reads ©.
4 9g reads CAD;
5 This cannot be right.

may have arisen in the Greek.

voria = ‘moisture’

* Corrupt for በመስ:

#, c/y read በምሥራቁ;

Or RAs

» F reads

9 AK;

=F reads
Corruption

Text = vdros which may be a corruption of »drts Or

may have been a mareinal sloss explaining APY:

Thus 9 omits it together following @. The fact that /w, agcé/x,a omit this @
though they insert RA: may point in this direction.
ss cuts the knot by reading

ጻምጸዜብ፡ ጠል ፤፡፣ ኣምህዩ፡ ጸ" ወጠልእ፤፡

= «5

omit.

7 m omits.

76

መጽሐፈ፡

ህኖ

XXXVI. EETXRXRXVIHL. 4.

ፁርኩ፡ መንገለ፡ ጽባሕ በጸጽናፈ፤ ሰማይዴ፡ ወ“በህየ።። ርጸኩ፡፥ ሠለስቱ’ Jግዋኝወ፤ ሰማይ
ርሣግዋች፡ መንገሰ፡ ጽባሕ፤፡ ወባዕሴሆሙመ፡፥ Jዋሣው፡፣ ንጹሰን።
3. በበሄ፡፡ ጸምጻልዙ፡
ግዋግጦ፡ ንጽሳን፣ የሕልፉ ከዋክብት፡ ሰማዶዴ፡ ወየሕውፉ፡ “ምዕራብ፡ በፍኖት ሓገ
YEAST: Nr:
4. ወሶበ፣፡ ርጺኩ፡፥ በረኩ” በዙሱ፡። ሂዜ፤ ወ“ጻበርኮ፤ ሲ“ኣ7ገዚይ፡
በብሐት፡

ዘገብረ፡።

ተፕጻምራተ፡"

ወ“ሰኘፍሰኝ፣ ወለሰብጻኳ፤

ዓቢ

ወስቡሓ፤

ከመ፤ ያርዉ፡ 0በዩ፣ 7ብሩ፡ ሰመሳጻካቲሆ፡

ከመ፡ ዶሰብሕያዎ፡። ፃብሮ፡ “ወሉ

ትኘባሮ፡" ከመ፤ ድርጸዩ፤” “9ብረ፡

ጋኃይሱ፡። ወ።ይሰብሕዎ፡። ሲ“ፃብረ፤ ኣዴሁ። ዓቢድይ፤ ወዴባርሕኻዎ፤ ጻስከ፣ ሲ’”ዓሲሰም።
XXXVIL. *ራAE; HCA: nai ራAt: ጥበብ; Hርኣዩ: #2: OE; ei AE
መባአሌል፡። ወልደ፤ ቃዴናኽ፡ ወልደ ሄኖስ፡ ወሒሊደ፡ ሴዥ'፡ ወልደ፤ ጸዳም።
2. ወዝ፡”

ርኣበ፡ ሲ’ኝገረ፡ ጥበብ፡ ዘ“ጸንሣኣኩ። ኣትናገር፡። |ኣብል፡|። ሲጻሰሲ፡ የጋ.ፎፉ፥ ውስት የብስ፡
ስምዑ፡፥

ቀደምት”

መኝፈሰት'።”
ሲጥበብ።

ወርኣዩ፥

ይደጋርያን፡"

ነገረ፡ ቅዲስ፡።

+ # omits next ten words through hint.
በማይi

ኣሰ፤ ኣነፃር፡

ቐቅድመ፤

ጻፇዚይ፡

3. ኣሱ ቁዳሚ፡” ዴኔዴስ፡" ብሄሂል፡። ወ“ደኃርያንሄ፡። ዚንክሳኳ። ርኣሰ፡
4. ኣስከ፡ ይጻዜ፡ ጺ“ትወህበ፤፡ ኣም“።ቅ.ድመ፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት፣። ዘነሣጻዙ፡

* nm omits.

9 reads JAY:

5 f reads VY

5 2 trans. after

? m,n omit next four words through hmt.

5 @bc(#2)%. reads DB. gu B. #, ef £ p(w)
ya በRh#: (or 08). 05 BB.
"7 reads
ዴን.
፣ reads በፍኖገ፥ ምዐፀራብ፤ ያ በፍኖት፣
• 9 omiis.
" ax aዛd ወበዙሴ፡ ፉ፡
n m reads lረnpi
= a,tf, #5, BS prefixD.
5 a, dkgya, #5, 8-48», omit.
™* 0d read
ጻፓዚጸብሔር፡ ስብሐ ። ኣግዚጸብሔር፡ • 5 ንጊሠ፤ ስብሐ
" ድ reads ዘገብራ
"5.

mu read TAei
9 YAምCYi
7 fu (but reading 14AY). In # the pA before
ሰብA፣ is erased. 2 supports the text save that for H&:ሰY; it reads i&ፉሰYi sm reads
ፉሰች፡ ሰብጻ፤

ያሪ። 5 ሲነፍሳት፣ ሰብኣ፤

ሰመላሳጻክቲሆሁ፡

“nu.

ላ

ሰብኣ

5 repeats ከመ፤ ያርዚ፣ 0በዩ፡ 7ብሩ፡

9 reads ዴሴቤብሕያዎ፡ / 5 ዴሰብጤ፥

"ደመ. ያ reas ሹሱ፡ ተፇባር

ሶ ዥሱ፡ ፕፇበፉ፡ ። ሹሉ ትፇበፉ፡ /, 5 ወሹሱ፡፤ ተፐፃባፉ፡
RE
EE
read ዴርጸይ፣ 9 ያርጺ፡
= 9 reads JA; ብ
= 9, 4 read ድቤብሕዎ፡ » ይሰብሑ፡
5 ab%x omit.
ag. 9,18 read Aደpሁi
» 9 adds Ami
These words are
om. by # but the space is left for them. 2 omits the first two words. For AAAs of
Zon,
in miuB-a (»5nB we read AA
7 mu, l8. # reads IAA:

gf ማሰ;
= 7 prefixes ©.
=» mg read ወH.
» 9 reads 0. 5» AN.
Jah; / RBDHhi
= 9 omits.
5am, dye. m,B-gya prefix ©.
as a dittography.

2 m omits.
Se.

Other MSS.

into Ai
1

“mL

or AA

adds TA:

ፃ ችጀ፤

g omits and puts next word in acc.

5 fx read ይር
read eh;

2

read pi

asx omit,

a, 8 read &fi

Other MSS. read pዲ;

5 A nominativus pendens.

for %".

as a gloss in the margin.

ወክቷ ይደጋርያገሰ፡ 7! ደጋርያን፤

0 reads H.

Fmt Fo).

Else em. Ay;

0 9 reads ድቕይሰ፤
5 m, B~ab/Ix.

“ያ.

™ 9 reads
Bracketed

“a 2ይ

am

read ጋCPYY:

Other MSS. RYnAAi

“reads H.

XXXV IL. 4STXRXXVIIH. 4.

መጽሻሐፈ፡

ዛሃ:

By

ጥበበ፤ በከመ፤ ጋለይደኩ፡፥ በከመ ፈቁደ፡ ጻግዚጾ፡ መንፈሳ ዘተውህበኒ፡ ጸምኔሆ፡ ክፍለ:
ሕሐዴወት፡፣ ዘለንሰም።
5. ወከፉ፡፣ ብየ፡ ሠሰስቲ። ምሳሌ: ወጸ፤፡፣ ጸንሣጻኩ፡፣ ኣንዚ፡
ጻብሎመ፡ ሲጻሰ፡ “የጋድ
ሶበ;

ያስትችሬx፤።

ኗደበ፡ የብስ

ማሣበረ፡።

XXXVIII.

ሰሌ;

PAs

ጻድቃን

ወዴደትኬነኒ፡ ጋጥጻኝ፤ በ“ጋጢጸተመሙ፡
ወ’ጻጳምገጸ፤ ዩየብስ፡ ዴትሀወኩ

2. ወ፣ሶበ፤ ስተሬጺ። ጽ.ፎቅ፡"” በገጾመ“ ለጻ.ፎቃን፡
ኣሲ” ሣፉያኝ፡። ችትፇበሮመ፡፥ ስቁል፤ በ“ኣ7ኘዚጸ፡ መንፈሳኝ፡
ወያስተርዉ፤

ብርሃን፤

ጻይጌቱ፣፡ መጋ.ፎረ;።

ሲጻድቃን፡

ሰጻሰ፡ ካሕድያዎ፡። ሰጻግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት

ሶበ፥ ዚትችወልፉዱፉ።

3. ሶበ;። ይችክከሠች፡።”
ዶይኘኬነኒ፡።

ጻሰ፤ “የጋ.ፎፉ፤ ዷደበ፡ ዩብስ፡”

ጋጥጻኽ

ወጸዴቴ፡” ምዕራፎመ፥
ጻምጋዩሶመ፡።

ወሰሣፉያን፡

ሣግቡጻቲሆመ፡”

ሰለጺራፎቃን

ጋጥጻገ፡

ወዴደችሀወኩ፥።

ረሲዓን፣

ጳምገጸ፡።

ጻፎቃን፡

ወሣኗሩያን።።

4. ወጻምይጻጨ፣ ዚይክከወ፡ "0ዚዛ]; ወጺልዑፁሳን፡። ኣለ; ይኣሣዝዋ፡። ለም.ፎር።
ወጺይኻሲሱ፡።” ርጳዩ፡ “ገ8፡ ቅዲሰን፡”
ሓስመ፤

ጳፃዚጸ፡።

መንፈሳት

ጸርጸዩ፡። ብርሃኖ፡።

በ“ገጸ፤

ቅዲሳን፡

ጻ.ፎቃን፡።

1 Im prefixes ©.
2: £. Other MISS. read ፍስት;
« w# reads hii
5 tL Fm read wANY:i Other MSS. E.

7 a% read AY:
£0;

s mu read bola;

agicgx a tጋEri 0;

ወሣግፉ.ያን።

5 2 reads hዴወli
o(2) 8 read ምሰAPY

sag, EFDRIno(2w).

HerefFrepeats xxxvii. 2% (Ng. . 5.

9g reads
EE

im gu read PNA;
u g reads ©.
5 2. g reads Phስተረጺ: (sic). Other MSS.
ስፐርጺ፡
4 reads FAግEéi
=m reads ©.
mg omit,
"« 9g reads ትው:
7 0, PB. ag omit.
52. g reads PhYረጺxi Other MSS. ያስትርR
i)
mn) 3 read &.EY;
p-reads \.
ጋ # adds ትበፋፌሆሙመ፡፥ ወ.
= 9 reads ሲ.
08 ቤ3በ፡
5 mመ reads ብስ; tHE; (sic).
4. Other MSS. read yሣEeé:
= # adds ማሣይደሮመ፡ ወ.
5 2 reads 1&0;
7 ab prefix ©.
I
read Af;

5 ad

#, B-4 read ይYትhwy

% Im, PB.

a-mn read ASE:

x 9 prefixes ©. aw omits.
5 F reads DትY".
5 reads AE;
x 7 omits next verse through bmi.
5 Fu(o). Other MSS. OHHH ወጺAሁሳH
መ adds የ3ድርዋ፡ ©.

m reads “Hpi

= m adds DAሰማድ፡

” 2 reads “ል

" 9 reads 18: 8.23; ወቅዱሰን፡ ።» ኣምገጸ፡ ጻደቃን፡
nad B-g read AAU:
= Emended from TCA:
5 9. Other MSS. read ACYL;
# Emended from
(Flemming).

ma, deff [ny a, abcopivyXs prefix ©.

lt may be interpolated.

78

መጽሐፈ:

5. ወ'ኔገመኝ፡

ወዓዚዛኘ፡

በውኣጻቱ፡

ፉዜ፤

ዛኛ፡

OOO

OO

“ዶሃ ጋኮሲ፡

ወ’ደትወሀቡ፡፡ ውስት፣ ኳደ፡ ጻፎቃኝን፡ ወቐዱሰን።
6. ወ።ኣም’ህዩ፡ ጸልቦ፡ ዘያስትምሕር፡ ሎሙ? ሰ'ጻኘዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት
[ኣስመ፡ ተወ.ፎጸ፣ ኣገቲጸሆመ፡ ሕዴዶወት'።፣
XXXIX. ወ*ከውን፡’ በዝኩ፡" መዋዕል፡
ዴወርዴዷ፡” ደቄቅ፡። *ሣፉያን፡ ወቐዱሰን፡። ኣም።ልፁሁል፡ ሰማዶዴ፡። ወ።ጸሐደ፡። ዴከውን፣"
ዘርጸመ፡ ምስለ; ውሱዶደ፡ ሰብኣጻ።
5. ወ“በውጻቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ነሥጸ፡ ሄኖክ፡ መጻሕፍት

“ሕንጸት፡ ወመዐት'፡" ወመጻሕፍት፡” ጕጕጻ፡ ወሀውሕ፡]
ወ“ምሕረት፣

ጺደከውን፡።

ሳዕሴሆመ፡።

ድቤ”

ኣንዚጸ፡

መኘንፈሰት።

3. ወበ።ውልቲ፡ መዋዕል፡” መሠጠኒ፡” ፀውሉ፡ ነሰ” ጳም።ገጻ፤ ሰ“ም.ድር፡።
ወጸንበረኒ፡” ውስት፤ “ጽንፈ፤ ሰማያት።።
4. ወበህና፡ ርጺኩ፡። ራኣዩ፡” ካልክ፡ መጋ.ፎሪሆመሙ፡። ሰቐዱሰን፡።
ወምስኻካበቲሆሙ፡። ሰጻድቃን።”
5. በቢህዩ፡። ርኳያ፡፤ ጸዕዴዶንትዩ፡። ማሣደሮመሙ፡።”

ምስሰ፤

“መላሳጻክ1፡

ወምስኣቢሆመሙመ፡” ምስሰ፡ ቅዲሳን
ወዴስኣሲ፡። ወያስተበፉዑ፡። ወዴጴልዩ፣ በጻንት፡ ውሱደ፤
ወጽድቅ፡ ከመ፡ ማደ፡ ይውሕሽ፡። ቅ.ፎጃሆመሙ፡*
ወምሐረቫ ክመ ጠል፤፡ ውስት፣ ምድር
1 Z omits.

PR

OTE

MSS. read £YU ©.
omit.
sa. B reads 30;

22.

ጽድቁ"

ሰብኣ፡

g omits.

a reads ዚREYY ©.

Other

2 reads YP.
? a, co(»),p. Other MSS.
7. Other MSS. read መé&ስትi
* Zu read hi

5 9 reads Lhውቱ
10 aim, mm reads በዝ: 8 በWYE:
1
adds ይኩን] ከመ፡
15 mf, B.
gu,
read hy:
25 0 trans.
# a. B reads AY; ሰማያት
v mgt a, B read.
15 g reads nr: and trans. before Rh:
oy
Other MSS. omit.

7 trans.
brackets.
ኣፃዚአጾብሔር

5 a~m, B-day.

50,8. Z/u read wii
መ, B read ፉስ: /' ወነፉሰኝ፡

read RIL:

m, gy read መጽሐ:

15 m reads in acc.

mn adds pዲAY; H. / inserts #ዲAY; above pY" but encloses it in
= 9 reads መሕረት ጺዴዙን፡
=
adds ይኩን፣
5 nm (0) add
#08.
m reads 0. uD.
5 a. By read Li y omits.
mm JA:
7°, 5 add si
3 ax read "18;
5

™ 0 (5), read Ai ሰማ:

© against a.
reads ብስ;

I OS
30 #, 8, aie

= m trans. afer &At

» ua omit.

iru
m8 read AEP
m inserts © before 4.
a omits next seven
words through hmt.
5 8 trans. p&” and RE" against a.
read

ምስካቢሆመሙ፡
ማሣግደሪሆሙመ

7 adds CX
። ማጋድፎ".

0a,

5 wu read AOEYE

TeZmng.

bB read

@ reads

ag.

9g, B read

መAላAY

ምመስኻካበቲሆመ፥
“።
omits.
“ /, a6 read ስትብፉ0:
5 a. B~u read pa".
u omits.

“ 5 adds መዋOሊሆሙ፡

RRO

መጽጠፈ፡

ህኛኻ፡

79

ከመዝ: ውኣቲቱ፡ ማኣጻከሎመ፡፡ ሲ’ዓለሰመ፡ ዓሰም
6. ወበውኳቱ፡ መኻን;፣ ርኣያ ጸዕዴንትዩ፡፡ *ሣፉዩ፡፡ ሲ'ጽድቅ፡፡ ወዘ’ሃዴማኖነ፡
ወጽ.ፎቹ፡ ይክከውንኝ፤፡ በመዋዕሲሆሁ፡"
ወጻ.ፎቃን፣ ወሣኝ; ልቁ፡። ጸልቦመ፡ ። ቐ.ድሜሆሁ፥ ሲዓሰመ፤ ዓሰም።
7. ወ“ርጺኩ፡

ማሣደር"

መትሕ፡

“ጸክናፈ፡

ወ“ዥሉ፡። ጻ.ፎቃን፡ ወሣግፉያኝ፡ በቅድሜሁ”

ኣገዚጸ፡"

መንፈሰ

ይትለሐሕዩ፡። ከመ፤ ብርሃ፤ ጻሳነ፡

ወጸፉሆመሙመ፡ ይመልኣ፡ በረከ
ወ’ከናፍሪሆሙ፡ ይሴብሑ ስሞ፡ ሰጻኘዚጾ፡፤ መንፈሳት
ወጽ.ፎቅ፣፡ ቅፎ’ጃሆ፡ ዚየጋልቅ፡
*መርት)፡ ዚየጋልቅ፡ ቅ.ፎሆሁ፡።
8. ህዩ፡ ፈቅፎኩ፡።

ልሣድር፡

ወፈትወች፡ መንፈስዩ። ሰውጻቲቱ፡ ማሣደር
በህየ ኮኔ ክፍልና፡ ቅፎመ፡
ኣስመ፡ ከመዝ: ጻን0;። በጻንቲጸዩ፡ በ“ቀ.ድፎመ፤ ኣጳግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳች።።
9.

በ“ውጻትን፡።

መዋዕል፡

ሰባሕኩ፥፡

ወጸልዐፀልኩ፡፥

ስሞ፡

ሰኣግዚጸ፡

መንፈሳት

በረከ

ወስብሕት፣ ጳስመ፡። ውጻቱ፡ ጸጽንዐኒ፡፤ በበረከገ፣ ወስብሐት” በከመ፡ ፈቃዲኗ፡፥ ሰኣግዚይ፡
መንፈሰት።።
10. ወ“ኾንዱዩ;።
ርኣዩ፡። ጸዕዴንትዩ፡ በውኣቱ፡ መካን፣ ወባረካዎ፡
1 g trans. after Ar;

hmt.

2 mgt B. Fup read Am.

sam, m,ያ8 read mPOA

(9 omits) AY

m omits.

ax"

AEH:

5 c reads EY;

“ mn omits ver. 6 through

° 9 reads AOYEt

a0.

7° inserts ony; above AX:

9 a=, B.

9,8—~a read nk
7 am.

Zu read DA.

B reads H.

10 a,

#28 read

በመየዕሲሊሆሙ፡
1 9 reads D2ራ;
5 Z0/u. 9 also prefixes ©. m, B-Bé
read Ai
858 Aቁ፡
5 § reads AAO: Before AN there is a letter erased in #
and Havi; is added in the margin.

ማሣግደሮመሙ
ክካናፈ፡

Nfpu omit,

ሪፀcyeZh xy AEP;

መሳባጻኳ፣

ወ.

BIH

0 5, ያፆ8-a. am read ድች
= Pgabdgex. ያuread Phi

MSS. read SEs

5 2. y reads ስብሐት

7 q reads AHR:

DB

Nan:

a ይትሕሰሲዩ፡
1a FrB.
m/cFhSIn0a9 hi

is nm omits.

g reads 0.
or Ahi

ax read ፈYውhi

5 Fgu,abcdgeh.
wu, 7B read D0.

my omit.
= 2. Other

a9.

9,8

mhFRInOX ay read A813;
si /u, 8. mg read AE:

Other MSS. መe&EስትY; ። adds ወUብኩs

(5) ከመ፤
5 dy read Of. See next note.
ጸጽንንኒ፡ በበረከት ወበስብሐት፣
“ያያ, “8.

Other MSS. read CX;

g/u, BEIPn0ysa read

i reads EN,

= abgiuyxa omit.

read 14:0Nt;
7 0, n prefix ©.
5 g omits. 8 reads ©.
30 a=.

gm.

15 # reads hi

” 505 read በn:

5 m repeats as follows Aho; PAE:
/ reads ገሀደ፤ ። ዮኮንዳ፡
SEI

80

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኝ፡

XR RTE OT

ወሰባሕሕዎ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ኣብል፣ ቡፉኻ፡ ውaቱ፡ ወዶት'ባረሕ፣ ጸምቅ.ራመ፡። ወ’ሓስክ፡ ሰንሰም።
11. ወቢ'ቅ.ፎጃሁ፡ ማግሰቐች፡፡ ጸልቦ፤ ውኣቱ፡ ጸምር፡፡ ዘኣንበሰ፡ ይትፈጠር ዓሰም
መንት፡ ውኣጻቲቱ፡ ሰንሰም፡ ወለትውልደ፡ ትውልደ ዘይከውን
19. ዴበርኩክ፤ ሓጻሰ፡
ዚደነውመ፡ ወይቁውመ፡ ቅ.ድመ፡’ ስብሕቲ።ክ፡" ወዴበርኩ፡” ወይሴብሑ ወያሴዕሰ፡ ጻንዚ፡
ዴዶብሱ፤ ቅኗስ፡ ቅዱስ፡ ቅዷኗስ፡። ኣግዚጸ፤ መንፈሳኝ። ይዴመልኳ፡'፡ ምድረ፤ መንፈሳተ።።”
13.
ወበህዩ፡ ርኳያ፡ ጸዕዴንትዩ፡ ሹሉ፡'፡ ጻሲ;።” ዚይነውመ፡፥ ይቁውመሙ፡”። ቐቅፎጃሁ፡ ወዴበርኩ፡
ወድዴብሱ፤ ቡሩኻ፡ ጸን"

ወቡኗኳ፤ ስመ“

ሲ“ኣጻግዚኳ፡” “ሲዓሰመ፡ ዓሲም።=

14. ወትችወሰጠ፡

ገጽዩ፡ ኣስመ፡። ስኣጻንኩ፡ ነጽሮ።
XL. ወርጺከ፡ አምድሣረዝ፡። ጸጻሳባፈ፡። ጸጻሳፍ፡።
ወች ጸእፊት፣ ትኣጸእፊታት፡። “ጐልቁ፡ ወጋሰበ፡። ጸልቦመ፡። ኣሰ፡ ይደቁቀውሙ፡ ቅድመ”
ሓ7ገዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት
2. ርጺኩ፡” ወ።በ“ዘርበዕቱ፡። ሕነፊሀሆ፡፥ ሲኣፃዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት”
ርኩ

ጸርባዕተ፡።

*ገጸ፡

ካልጸ;።

ኣምኔ።”

ኣሰሲ፡ ዚደነውመ፡።”

ወጸስማቲሆመ

ጸዘጻመርኩ፡

ዘጸድድዐኒ፡። ጸስማቲሆሙ፡። መልጸካ፡ ዘመጽጸ፡ ምስሴዩ፡። ወሉ
ሣቡጻ1፣ ጸርጸዩኒ።"
3. ወስማዕኩ፥ ቃሎመ፡ ሲ“ጻልኩ፡። ገጽ፡ ጸርባዕቱ፡። ኣጻንዘ፡ ይሴብሑ ቐድፎመ፡። ኣፃግዚይጾ
ስብሐት
4. ቃል፡ ቁዳማዩ፡። ዴበርኮ፡" ለጻግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳ” ሲዓሰመ፤ ዓሰም።
1 0p CeFBSInoy
ag. mu read ሰባ
ag gx omit.
2A
DD:
5 » omits.
1 » reads DA;
2 2. So also gf save that they trans. after RAs
m tw read IAAVY:
So also abc dge/FhInox ab save that they trans. after RAD:

OEE

OBE

ECAR

MSS. read በቅ.E;

OOOO

10 gy read bi

OE

FE

abcp (2) add sufhix hi

ROOTES
m omits

next twenty-one words,
ax omit.
#2. Other MSS. read gh;
1 ax read መል: (ይመልእ x) WN;
TOFD
PDO
TEAM
መንፈሰገ፥

9, ። መናፍስት፡

5 9, /0y prefix D.

። መናፍስ

» e reads PAE

A3ሰ ም; and m trans. before AAI".

'5 ፀ a5 ትጊሃክ፣

#

» ax read AJLRብሔር:i

= a. #2, 8—~e read aስhi ve ©.

17 8B omits.

= mz) read
= 9 trans. before

CXWi ax trans. after YAY
= 9 reads RAE:
= a7. 9, 5 read RAY:
5 a. B~ae read YAY
axa RAሳYi » aqds ወAAAYi
an &.
ዘ, ፀ-8 read ልቅ

ወሕሳብ፡

bcehptinaadd ስብሐችትi

5 3 prefixes © and trans. before ‘HAP;

» 8

read CRW

cs (2) omit.

5 ያ

This word belongs to

the preceding sentence according to miu, FX and certain of ay9c de, Dillmann does
not say which.
NR Inya omit.
PR
MO BFE:
PR
OY
B read g.
5 Bh omits. a reads "JAY; AAI
o 18:
5 0m, g/u, 8-0 A;
o omits.
5 aim, m reads Rios
/°, 8 read paw
7 ዐu read NP3L:

5ax omit.
nF reads RR.

Srmgt Belin #5e real Jt
«Ina Jቤt: ስዩ:
“mg, agcdxa. #e/hh/oB read ANNE: u ayYEs C0)

# ኣሴ

Sm.

g omits.

5g reads A.
9 ድበርኻዎ፤

gy 0 read መና&ENስ1i
" c (5) add AንHi
“5-5. Zu read RCW
» (5) ዴበርሕ፤
Te. All other MSS. but e read oé&hስት; e ስብሐት

Zu read 8g.

So also 8, but it trans. before 'J&:;

TE TT

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

:)]

5. ወ።ቃል፤ ካልእ’ ሰማዕኩ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ዴባርኮ፡፡ ሰሲ“ሣፉድ፤ ወሲ’ሣፉ.ያን፡ ጻሲ፡ ስቁሳን፡ በኣፓዚጸ፡
መንፈሳት ።፣
6. ወ“ሣልስ፡ ቃኳ፡፡ ሰማዕኩ “ኣንዘ፡ ድስኣል፡ ወዴጴሲ፡፡ በኣኳን፡ ኣለ፡
የሐድፉ፡፥ ውስት። ዩብስ፡ ወያስተበፉዕ፡፡ በስመ፡፥ ሰጻፇዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት'።፡
7. ወ።ቃል፡
ራብዕ; ሰማዕኩ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ይሰድዶመ፡"
መንፈሰት፡። ከመ፡ ያስትዋ.ድፎድይዎመሙመ፡።

ሰሰይጠናኝ፡ ወጺ“የጋፎሃሙመ፡"
ለኣሰ፥ ዩየጋፎፉ፥ ፉበ፡። ዩየብስ።

ይባጽ፥ ኘበ፡ ጻገዚዚ፡
5. ወጻም.ፎሣረዝሽ፡

ትስኣልሕዎ፤ ለመልጸከ፡ ሰሳባም፡ ዘ“ምስሴዩ፡" የሕውር፡"፡ ዘውልጻቱ፡ ጸርጸዩ፤፡ ሹሉ ዘሣቡኳ፡
መዬ" ውጸተሙ” ልሱ፡።” ፱።ገጽ፡ ዘ“ርፈኩ፡ ወዘ“ሰማ0ዕኩ፥ ቃሎመ። ወጸሕፍካዎሙ፡።
9. ወይቤሲኒ፤ ዝ“ቁቀዳማዩ፤፡ ውኳጻቱ፡ መሓሪ፡ ወ“ርሑቁ፡
መዓገ፡። ሚካሌል፤ ካልኣ”
ዘቷበ፡ ሹሰ” “ሕማም፡ ወደበ ሹሲ፤፥ ቍሦስሰ፡” ውሰደ”
ሰብኳ፤፡ ውኣቱ፡። ፉፋሌስል፤
ወ።ሣገልስ፡ ዘዷበ፡ ቫዙዙ፡ ጋይኳ፡ ውኣቱ፡። ገብርጴል፤፣ ወራብዕ፡ ዘቷደበ፡። “ንስሓ ለተስፉ፡።
ሓሰ፡ ድወርሰ፡ ሕዴደወተ፡። ዘሰንሰም፡ ዘስሙ” ፋኒሌል።።
10. ወኣሴ፥ ጸርባዕቱ።
መባኣኻቲሁ፣ ሰ“ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት” ወጸርባዕተ፡ ቃሰሲ፡ ሰማዕኩ፡ በውኣተን፡" መዋዕል።
XLI.

ወጻምድሣረሽዝ፣

ርዉኩ፤

ሹሉ”

“ሣጻቲሆሁ፡።

1 9.
my Bread 2A; NAA:
2 5B.
‘2. Other MSS. read Sahl
2.
ሣልስ፡ ቃሲ፡
። 8 ሣልሰ፡ ቃለ
s mended.

ወይጹእዩi
ዴስኣ

9 trans. this clause after ብስ;
ወያስተበፉዑ፡

7m

ሰሰማ”

ወመንገሥመቫ፣

a reads በር;
5 9 reads SE:
So also g save that it trans. 2m reads

All MSS. but gn read AH: £ስa

4 reads AንH: ስኣል: ወይጺሲ:

DcdFBRIoab.

u reads pF RBAE: here. See note 6.

B-e/B8n 0p read 2A

ራብ};

eZFysnopፅ 2A; ራብን

n 9 reads LEIP

። t4.

4 20,8.

15 creads Hf3.EC:

5m.

። ኣንH

gw, aenx read £0

from ወያስY0#0; of the MSS.

ያስተዋድፎየዮመ፡

SE,

gu.

mh

"9 reads ይሰ.

Other MSS. read መፍ&ስ1;

miu read ስ;

9 reads HA;

ጻኣፎ፡።

5 im reads

5 B trans. after fh;

adds ጽር

against a.

abcde x add PAa@N

against a and FB In0p (wy a.

» m reads Dmki

0 m reads AE:

7 a reads AA

= 9 omits.

MSS. read AAG

= oy read 2A:

/omis.

¢e Ai ori

= 9 reads Ai

ax omit.

= £,D. Other

7 8 adds pዲhi

=

8 pre-

fx ©.
3 0b add from next sentence JAN; £0; tt:
BO
Al50
#, /#B~0 save that for NA; they read hi
sm reads ሐማም: £0; fs 9 hy;
ወዷበ፡ ሹሴ፡ ወቷደበ፡ ቍሦፉስል፡ ዕዕ ቍፉስል፡ ወሐማም፡
amu.
0 reads AE:
8 ዘውሪ

5 a reads AE:

¥ዲ.ስ;

5 8 adds ሕዴስ፤

x m reads Hhan:

gy add ዙሴ፤

” ag, 4/58 Ino (nw)y.

reads ጌኸሓi ለንስሓ

።ሪcvx }Y ወለቱስፉ፡

5 g reads Tht: Sወችi

B-8.

read መe&NYi

before CA;

tion).

” a. / adds AE; above Hስ

ድመ, ይ read ፉፋሌል፡

5

5 reads AIHLRብሔC:

#5 reads tras

Siw 8.

AA

ax omit.

reads PAN

5 reads Aas

= g/u,

So also mg/wu save that for my

a g trans.

#5, 8 read AALVa

(a correc-

Sa.

wg ANNE:
M

they

n reads በAE;

“ax read hm:

89

መጽሐጠፈ፡

ችትክፈእ፡፦›

ወትንበረ፤

መዳ.ፎሪሆሙ፡፣

ሰብኣ፤

ሲሰሕኗፉያን፣

ከመ።

ዛኛነ፡

በ"መዳልው፡

ወ“መጋድሪሆሙ፡፣

XT
ድደለው።፡

ሰቅዲሰን፡

ወርኳኣያ፤

2. በህዩ።።

ርጺኩ፡

ጸዕዶንትዩ፡፡።

በህየዩ።፡

ሎሙ ኃጥጻን፤ ኣንቫ፡ ይሰ.ደዷኗ፡"' ኣምህዩ፡ ኣሰ፡ ይክሕ.ፎያዎ፡" ሲ“ስመ፡። ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት"
ወ“ዴሰሕቡ፡።“ ወ።“ቁዊመ፡” ጸልቦሙ፡ በመቅሠፍት ኣንት፤ ትወጽኳ፡፡ ኣም" ኣፇዚጸ፡
መንፈሳት ።።
3. ወበህየ፡ ርኳያ፡ ጸዕዶንትዩ፡ ሣቡጻተ፡ መባርቅት" ወሣኮድዃድ፡።
ወ።ሣቡጻገ፡ ነፉሰኝ። ኣፎ፡;። ይትከፈሱ፡። ከመ፤ ይንፍሑ ፉበ፡ ምድር፡ ወሣቡጻተ፡ ደመና”
ወጠል፡።” ወበህዩ፡ ርጺኩ፡። ጳምኘግበ፡ ይመጽኣ;። በውጻቱ፡ መካን፡ ወ“ጻምህዩ፡።” ይፀ7በ፡
ጾበሰ።

“ፎር,

ንፋስ፡” መዝገብ፡።

4.

በህዩ።

“ዘበረድ፡”

ርዲኩ፡

መዛኘብት፡፥

ወነፉስ፡”" መዝገበ፡።

ዕጽዋነ፤

ደ

ኣምላዕሰ፡። ም.ፎር፡" የጌፎር፡” ኣምቐ.ድመ፡ ዓሰም።
ወዘወርሣ፡ ጻጓምጸይደቴ፡ ይዴወፀጽ፡ ወጸዴድቴ፡" ዴገብጽ፡
ይክብር፡

ጸሐዲፍ፡ ሰ“ካልጹ፡

ወጺዩየጋጽፉ፡።

ወምሕዋሮመሙመ፡

ኣምሕዋረ፡”

ዚጸሆመ

ወኣምኔሆመ፡፥

“ወዘደመና፡

ወደመና;።

የዐቅቡ፡

ሄምስለ፡

ካልዙ፡

' /u, 8c}. መ, ch read ትትኻፈል፡
ያ ይትክፈል፡
2 2 omits.
‘II F8L
mo B-afRI0y read Rn
4y,a REA
0 ይደAው
fixes ©.

S50.

mt, 8B read AVP:

ዚጸሆ፡

5. ወርጺኩ፡ መዛግብተ፡ ፀሐሕይ፡።
ወገብጸተመ፡
ስቡሕ፡“ ወኣፎ፡

ብፁል፡" ወጺ“የጋኃልሩፉ፡" ምሕዋረ፡

ወሃዶማኖት፡”

ይትክፈቡ

ወጺዴቐስኩ፡
በመሐሳ፡”

5 m omits.
2 g pre-

9 omits next two words through hmt.

7. m reads Phስnቢሆs
, 5 omit. / B50 read ማAEሪሆPmi F505 5
Pመስካባቲሆመሙ፥
* 9 adds ከmመi
u omits. ax add MሣEረi
1" 71,» read ሰዲ
n f8°a read hp:
5 ady% omit.
Sm.
Other MSS. except ax read
መፍናፍስኝ፥ ሪቷ ስብሐ
#97. መ reads ዴስሐቡ፤ /።, 5 ይስሕብዎሙ፡
5k.
So wu, but it trans. after RNa; my, 8 read Ppi
1 2 reads TA
7 a reads
በ30; 4 omis.
2m. Other MSS. መናSEስትi
መበርሕቕት፡
ጋ » adds ግጡ
1 cdFBR0vyD

q ፲ሩads ሣግቡጸ፤ ነፉሰት፣፡ ያ ሣግቡጸ፣ “ሰተ፡
5 giy»,a prefix.
=, cilread Yn.
ax add pደመፍትi
7 m reads PRoRAi

m reads ባራ:
4/5 80h
read Fኮድ3E
5a, B-IFBRo.

ኃደዕሪሪ ዳግቡጻ፡ “ሰት፡ » ሣቡጸ፡ ነፉስ፡
» ax read j#ሰትi
= 9 reads ሳት:
emu, Other MSS. LBA
”» 9 reads

በy€; » adds CW See note 27.
0 ያ, /5B~n, F/nu read RA; 9 ጽቡሳ ። ፀበሳት፡
i
OLS:
Seu.
Other MSS. prefix ©.
5m.
#u, 8-8 read jፉሰት;

& omits.

tw.

FP prefixes ©.

9 reads HIN:

», 5 HI:

a0.

9, 8 read በራ.
5a, Boy,b read piፉሰYi
B-ho5y omit.
7 8 prefixes @©.
SF,
SO g Save that it trans. the two words.
Zu: read DSi
m as:

ወደመና፤
ወደመና፡

#, 5a ወHደመናት; (+ EC;Y) ወ(ወH S)ደመፍi
5 0,8. ድ/ሥቦ።ሠ read ጴምሳዕሰ። መ, a ላዕሲ፡

1 df reads I.E

SFI

B-akx.

mu, fe read Hh:

ax ወመዝገበ: ደመት;
By read nee:
ax omit.

5 w reads

ወጻምጸዬይቱ፡
“ 7። read ስሐ፡
*a-/ #8 readaም.,
5 u reads AAI
“rms
BRInX,a. gu, abcdefoBsreadt'y. 5» m omits. ያreadsDAYጽR 5 ሕፀ; Ins
"ሐፀፁ፥፡

" a reads ምሕዋረ፤

” mu.

9 reads “PY:

8 "Ps

” 9 reads 030;

PRO NTI,

መጽሐፈ:

ህሄኛኻ፡

89

ተዘ“ጋደፉተ።፣
6. ወድዴወፀኳኣ፡፡ ቅፎመ፡ ፀሐይ፡። ወዴዶገብር፡፡ ፍኖች፡ በትኣዛ፡ ኣግዚጸ፡
መገፈሰት፡።፦ ወይጺጸንዕ፡፡ ስሙ“ ሰንለመ፡፤ ዓለም።
7. ወጻም.ፎሣግረ’“ሽ፡፣ ርዚኩ፡፣ ፍኖት፣፡
ዘሣቡጻ፤ ወ"ክሠውት፡ ዘወርሣ፤ ወ" ምሕዋረ፡ ፍኖቱ፡ ይፌፊጽም፡ በውኣቱ፡ መኻኝ፤ በመዐልት፡
ወበሴሲት፡

ወጸሕዱ;።

ሲ“ካልዙ፡

ድኔጽር፡።

በቅድመ፡”

“ጸግዚጸ፡

መንፈሳት“

ወየጸችቱ

ወድቤብሑ፡ ወጺየፀርፉ፡። ጸስመ፤ ጸኩቴተሙ፡ ዕረፍ" ውጻቱ;”" ሎሙ
8. ጳስመ፡
ፀሕድደ፡። ብዙኘ፡። ሙያጤ፡። ቦቱ *ሰበረካት፡ ወሰመርገም፡።” ወምርዋጸ፤ ፍኖቱ ሰወርሣ፡
ሲ“ጻ.ድቃን፤ ብርሃን፡ ወሰጋጥጻንጌ፤ ጽልመቫ፣ በስመ ሰጻኘዚኣ፤ ዘፈጠረ፡ ማኣጻከሰ፤ ብርሃን
ወማጻክሰ፡ ጽልመት፣ ወከፈሰ፡ መንፈሶሙ ። ሰሰብኣጻ፤ ወጸጽንዐ;። መንፈሶሙ ሰለጻ.ፎቃን፡
በበስመ፡።” ጽድቁ” ዚጸሆሁ።
9. ኣስመ፡ መልጸሕ፤ ዚዶኻል፡። ወስልጣኘገ፡ ዚድክል፡ ከሲጸ፡
ሓላስመ፤ ሰመኩንን;። ሰሸኩመሙ፡ ድሬሲ፡። ወ“ጸሉንች፡። ሹሎመ፡ በቅ.ፎጃሆሁ፡። ውኣቱ፡ ፎኬንን።
XLII,

ጥበብ”

መኻኔ።

ረከበት

ኝበ፤ ትጋፎር፡።

ወ ሀሰወ;። ማሣግደራ፡ ውስተ፣ ሰማያት"
£m. gu, eh:0p read JE:
abcd/BInxa iti § Jብri But the text is
corrupt, and the corruption may have arisen in the Hebrew, where yay3 = ‘they have
Ssworny could be corrupted into S35 = ‘they have dwelt’ Flemming suggests the
corruption of Spkigoay into dxirgnoa. ax add DIAC; pm;
= # reads
ወደወፀዉ፡
5 2 reads BA:
4 0, ረ read ድ'ገብል፡
22. Other MSS. read

መናፍስት፡

፡ / adds gloss aንበAi gg; in marsin.

7c omit

ss, (2). All

other MSS. omit, but this, or some such verb, is required by the text of Z 9s (see
note 0) and by the context,
£9, do (vy, Other MSS. &:PY5 See preceding note.
2.
Other MSS. oH.
u m reads H.
5 Fm.
Fu, en read DB. 9, 3-en kB,
RE reads PIN:
eu, B-cgen. m reads RRኔጽC:I
9 LኔRr:
cgn (vw)

ድኔጽር፡

ይትናጸር

5 7 reads pi

mu add ስብሐት

5.

All other

MSS. but n read AZ” መፍ&Nትi ። reads AJHLAብሔC:
“ ax trans. before tA
(PAY in gn, n).
5 FIFIX. mu, abcde read ARO. 7 58no0x5 DAY.

» m reads ACEYI

nn omits.

(mn omitsjፀhድi

m, 8-5» add ብህ:

1 Fg, B-abco(vyx.

ምንት!

= g/m

ብዙ

= e reads ለመርገም; ወሰበ.

ሠ ማጻከሎመሙ፥

mob read መጨ;

= 9 reads ጽን0፡

Suh.

mh abco(»y xs read

Other M55. ብዙ:

9, B-Bno ጨi

ax add

“ax trans. before

5
reads DA.
7 m reads mi&;
=” m9, 5-a. ድ/u read በስሙ ወ በከመ፤ /, ads

መኝፈስሰ፡ and the gloss በy£ማ?PY; in marin.
0 prefixes ©.
a ef,y: Other
MSS. read RhልA:
5 a. All other MSS. መ}Yi The latter may stand if with
nearly all the MSS. we read Poi two words further on.

except # read Roki n reads PCA
wm.

5% mu, 8. F9readT00;/። Tf;

tu, abc geht read TEC:
% im reads ሰማይ;

5.

™ m, ax read ANYE: 9 omits.

min

7 9, oread ni

eFBInoab.

All other M55.

9 adds fra;

Enna.

abc
gt Ny read VAY:

ad

መጽጠፈፉ፡

ሄኛኽ፡

2. ወፀጸት፥ ጥበብ ክመ፡ ትሕ.ድር፡ ውስተ፤፣ ውሪ
ወዚረክከበ፣ ማግጓደሪረ፡
ጥበብ፡ ውስች፤ መሣና፤ ገብጸት
ወ“ችጽዕነት፡፡ ማኣጻክሰ፡ መሳጻክት'።
3. ወ0መዛi ወ6AY'፡ መዛግብቲሃ፡
ዘ’ፈፈቀዶደት፤

XT

NP RVR

ሰብጻ፡

ረከበት

ወጋ.ደረኝ፡፥ ውስቴቶሙ
ከመ

ዘsም፤

በበ.ፎው፡

ወክከመ፡ ጠል፡ በም.ድር፡ ጽምልላት'።
XLIII. ወርጺኩ፡ ኣልጸ፡ መባርዋጌ፡

ወክከዋክብነ፣ ሰማይ፤፡ ወርጺኩ፥ ከመ።፣ ድጴውዎዖመሙ፥
ሰሹሎመ፡፡ በበጸስማቲሆመሙ፡፥ ወይዴሰምዕዎ።፡
2. ወርጺኻዎ፣ ሲ"መዳልወ፤ ጽ.ፎቹ፣ ከመ፡
ይደለዉ፡” በ'ብርሃናቲሆመ፣ኘ ሰረጋበ፡። መኻካናቲሆመሙ፡። ወ።0ሰቱ;'፡ ከነተመ፡"” ወሚጠተመሙመ፡
መብረቁ፣፡ ይወልፎ፡ ወሚጠተሙ፡ በ“ቱልቁ፡፣ መሳኣኳካት፤፣ ወሃይዴማኖተሙመ፤ የዓቅቡ፡።
በበይናቲሆሙ“

3. ወተስኣልክዎ፤

መንት፡ “ጸሙንቱ፤ ኣጳሱ።።
ጸርጸዩክ።” ኣሴ

ለመልጸኳ፡ ዘየሐውር፡” ምስሌየ

ዘጸርጸዩ፤ኒ፡። ዘ።ሣቡል፡

4. ወድቤሰኒ፡። ምስሰ;” ዘዚጸሆመሙ፡።” ጻግዚቪጸ፡ መንፈሳት

ኣመሙንቱ፡ ጸስማቲሆመሙመ፡

ለቅዲዷሳን;”

ኣለ፡ የጋፎፉ፡”

ዲፉበ፡ ዩየብስ፡ ወዩየጸም፤፡

በስመ፡። ሲ“"ጻንዚጸ፣ መናፍስት ሲዓለሰመ፡ ዓሲም።።
XLIV. “nA; CX: በaንት፡
መብረቹ;። ኣጻፎ፤ ይደቁውሙ፡ ኣምክዋክብት፡ ወዴከወቷ፣፡ መብረቁ፣ ወጺይድካሱ፡ ጋኗገ;።

i a, B~abcedge(oswy. agcex read mጽAY:I
gmRA
ተጸንዓት፡ (+ወ 9). / ጸንዓት፤ = ተጺነ0ት፣
? = reads መጽAY
a loss HAጋDYYY
5 i reads ©.
Zmg omit.
? 4» read ወሰም0p;
a omits,
1 fha0a read lpi

into A). m reads C0; (sic).
በራሣበ፡ ኋ፡ ወርጺኩ፡ 97 omits.
ፃ ሱት
/ ጻሎን
5 Fg.

i
BI
read
« # adds in margin as

5 #1 reads ረከበ;
7 c omits.
8 Iu, 8B.
1) Iu, cFBR0ab. gm, ab gep% read 0.
»። ዴለ
5 wu (save that 1 have em. 0

/ በርግ:
a ራሕበi
Sc ራhበi
g/FBsInoays
5 Z omits.
4 FB. ru read 01; m= A};
mabcdgef’0xab read wy. PFBR'In() WY.

ሠኺነ.
50
reas በመብረቅ፤ ። መብረቅ፡ “5-9 መብረቐ፤ መብረቁ 4 reads
as 8 but inserts © before epi
/ adds gloss in marein HቢያYi ሐዋርያትን
7 20u. mh Bread Ai
5 wu reads 0p o omits.
5 # reads በ0: በዴኖ
ሠ በበ; በይሪፒሆመሙመ፡
0 m reads HUN;
m reads NE; A: 5» ኣሎን:
። ኣሰ
a መሰስ
5 h, a read HHH.
7m.

before AHR:
nu
ረ

against a.

reads በስመ; a ለስ
read ኻልእጻት፡ B~ሪcy

መምህራን

በትሕትና

1 sm omits,
5 TeadsaN:
DEH
23 m omits,
5 /። reads ምሰ
Other MSS. read መSENስት;
5 B trans.

5 a. 8B reads AR.E2Y;
™ m adds RY
ኻልእጻገ፡ » መናገ

5 ¢.

0 # reads የሐውፉ፤

» af (save that 9 puts in nom.), a.
5 m reads ብCYY:
/ adds loss

Other MSS. give the normal form "JX;

XLIV. XLV. 5.

መጽሐፈ:

ምሰሴሆሙ።፡
XLV. ወዝ፡፡ ካልእ
ቐቅዱሰን፤ ወ’ጻፃዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት'።፡።
2. ወ'ጺሰማዩ፡ ዩ0ፀርቱ፡
ወዚምፎረ፡
ከመ“ሽ፡፡

ህሄኛካ፡

88

ምዛሴ፡፡ ዷበ፡፡ ኣሰ

ይከሕሐዱ፡ ስሞ፡’ ለማግደረ፡፣

ይበጽሑ
ይከውን"

ካፍ;

ጋጥጻኘጌ፤ ጻሰ፤ ካሕዱ;።

ስሞ፤ ለጻገዚጸ፡

መንፈሳት

ጻሰ፡ ከመዝ፣ ድችፀዋበ፡። ሲ“0ሰተ፡ በራሐ፣ ወምንዳቤ
3. በዴይኣኳቲ፡። ፀሰት፣ ድነብር፡፡ ዷደበ፡;። መንበረ፤ ስብሐት ። ሣፉዴዩ፤።
ወተየገሪ;።

ምፃባሪሆሙ፡።

ወምዐፀራፎመ፡ ጐልቄ፤። ጸልቦ፡።
ወነፍሰመ፡” በማጻከሎመሙ፡። ችጺንዕ፡
ሶበ፣ ርጻይዎሙ፡። ለሣፉያኔ።” ዚዩ
ወሰጻሰ፡። ሰክከዩ፤ ስምዩ፡። ስቡሕ።
4. በይኳቲ፡። ዕሰት፣ ጸነገብሮ፡። ማጻከሉመ፡። ለግፉዩ;። ዚጸዩ፡።
ወጻቐልጣ፤። ሰሰማይ፤ ወ“ጻገብራ፡። በረክት፡። ወ“ብርሃ። ለዓለም።"
5. ወጻቐልጣ፣፡ ሲ“ዩብስ፡ ወጻገብራ፡ “ሰበረክች፡
ወ“ሰሕፉያነ፤ ዚጸዩ፡ ጸነብሮመ“። ውስቴታ፡።
ወሲጻሰ;። ዴገብኗፉ፡።" ጋጢጸተ፡ ወ፲ጋዩ፡ ዚይከይዳጃ፡ ውስቱታ።

ወH፡

‘75 ny. Other MSS. read hp
/ adds eloss መ3CLPao;
* 9 reads
5 0, P8. Zmnu read ኸለ possibly for ምስላ; as Flemming sugeests.

See XXXvii. 5 note.

‘fw aomit.

7 a, FB~n read OA.

a reads A.

° m omits.

5 fb read AማAበei

5 trans. AT” moS€” before y4,Ee:

5 omits A.
Sm.

Other

MSS. read መናፍስት;
Bia
SB’ Om:
0 q prefixes ©.
n # reads WE;
5 aim,
m, 8 read Ahዲ;
13 75 /read ድችዓፃዋቡ፡
4 9 reads 0.
5 #2 prefixes ©.
9 reads fy.
"2. moabgexiaread fl. gw, cFBR(UIN»0»B omit.

5 reads ስብሐት ax ስብሐቲሁ
"ያያ. m, 8b read Sri us AE: 9 omits.
0 m reads DAI;
2 reads D6:
m ጋሪ;
tYéi = Jn3, corrupt for ina»
= ‘try. LXX implies same corruption in Prov. xvii. 3. But if the original was
Aramaic, then the translator followed the wrong meaning of ግn3.
Vy
read PIC;
5.
ጋ, 8-8 read ልቀ
ደ ል፡
“ein FB-An
read AA:

5 a. B reads

DmYéAa;

5» omits

next

three words.

7am, degin(wya.
mo apcሆFhoxy read CAEP: » omits.
5 am,
gegin(w) ya. m, abcFhoxy read AA; » adds ሲY
a, Babs 0p.
af popxB read Ai

8 AA

0 /5 8 add ቅዲዷስ፤ ©.

x 8 prefixes ©.

5 9 reads Aces
#u AAC:
5a,
ድ reads MANN!
5 በማAክሎሙ
Amgen.
gu, cys read ASI
» ለሣትድ፡
5 as omits.
» reads

5 mn reads Rohe;
ጻትዊለሲጣ (sic).
¥ omits next six words throuah hmt.
"PB prefix H.

nT

5a # B~a read Aበረnትi ax ሰሕድወት፡
5 am. mm, Bu read ብርሃ}: ። ሰብር".

fFomits next six words through hmt.

az om

I

9, Bread ONAN:

i 2 omits.

* c reads ES

5 g reads

56

መጽሐፈ:

6. ጻስመ፤

ጸሃ፡ ርጺኩ፡፡

ወጸንበርክዎመ፡

ወቀርበት፣

መጸጽገብክዎመ፡

ዛኖክ፡

በሰሳም፣

WO XUN

ሰጻ.ፎቃንዩ፡

ቅ.ፎ2፣

Jኘቤየ።። ሹኔ፡፣ ጋጥጻን፡

"ከመ፤ ጸሕጕሎመሙመ፡፡’ ጳምገጸ፤ ምድር።
XLVI. yt; Cርxኩ፡ ዘሎቱ ርኣሰ፡ መዋዕል፡
ወርጳሱ፡ ከመ፤ ፀምር; ጸ08፡
ወምስሌሁ ካል፡ ዘገፉ፡፣ ከመ፤ ርኣየት; ሰብኣ
ወ'"ምሱል፡ ጸጋ; ገጹ; ከመ፡ ሄኣመላባኣኳት፡ ቅዱሳን"
2. ወ"ችስኣልክያዎ፤ ሰ“ተጀጸመሳኣኳት።ተ”። ዘየሐውር፡

ምስሴዩ፡ ወ“ዙሉ፡፡ ሣቡጻተት፡

ዘርኣዩ

በኣንተ፡ ዝከ፥ ወልደ፡። ሰብኳ፡ መኒ፡ ውኣቱ፡ ወኣምጸድቱ፡ ይክውንገ፤ ውኣቱ፡።
ምንት፡ ምስሰ፡። ርጳሰ፡” መዋዕል፤ የሐውር።
3. ወጋጸውሥልኒ፡ ወይቤሰሲ፤፡

“በኣንተ፡

ዝንቱ፡። ውኣቱ፡ ወልደ፤ ሰብኳ፡ ዘሎቱ ኮኔ ጽደቅ
ወጽድቅ

ምስሴሆ፡;።

ጋደረ፡።

ወ“ሸዙሎመሙ፡።” መዛፃብት፡

ዘሣቡኣ።

ውጻቱ፡ ይክከሥት፡

ኣጻስመ፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሰተ፡። ኪያሆ፡ ጋርዩ።
ወዘ።“ካፍሱ፡;” ሞጸ፡ በቅ.ድፎመ፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት፡። በርትዕ፡ ለ“ዓለም፡።
4. ወዝንቱ፡። ወልደ፡;። ሰብል ዘርሏክ፡
ተያገመጸመሙመ፡። ሰነገሥት፡ ወሰጋያሳኘን፤ ኣምስካባቲሆሙ፡

ag.

9,

Bread CAPs

፡ 9 reads PEI

፣ 6/580 ab read Why:

« ZB prefix ሲሲ.
° 9, a9c ge read AN. _y trans. after PCI
« 9, 1B prefix ©.
+ f reads ‘T&R: 9 omits.
5 2 reads 18;
" adds ገጽ
nm omits,
ei
prefix ©.
5 IX omit, af% omit next two words. Lhe prototype of af probably
contained three words here: th” Aga” ¥ዲ.AY; Hence loss here would be due
to hint.

» Read መAAM: (Volkmar),

There is only one angel guide in XXxvii—IXX.

e pk Inor(v wy a5 (also the prototype of af: see note 12) add p&AY

= a omits.

x omits WN; and H.
» 9 reads AY
0 Ff. mg, #8 read RACAL:
7 m reads NE:
s Dnop omit.
5 58. ድu ኑሩad በጻንጌ፣
9 በጻንገ፣ ምስለ፡
/ ምስሲ፡

2

omits,

1 Fm, bcde/inoay.

Other MSS. tN;
ሣቡይ፡

Pn

Sem.

31 e omits.

Zu, BR read Je:

5 m reads HJAYi

=

reads N.

መዛት

Other MSS. read መé&hስትi

EE BOR TEAM EN

3 m trans. before R.E;

9 omits. ax read HEC:

=.

tt:

7 m, a read H (m omits)

7 omits next seven words through

DION BD OPI

CUD OE

f5, apcdhsInox ay add WN; against a, ef/s'%,
PD
NOther NSS read
መናፍስት
5
a read HA.
3 / e add ውልቲ
SFOS:
5 This word
to which gy prefix H is corrupt. If we compare this verse with xlvi. 5* it becomes
obvious that the one is a dittography of the other. The parallelism shows that
xlvi. 5a is an intrusion. And yet PI&YARaw; undoubtedly represents the original

XLVI. 4-1.

መጽሐፈ:

ህኖ:

87

ወለጽፉንን፡ ኣመናብርቲሆሙመ፡
ወ።ድይፈትሕ፡ ልጓማት፡ ጽኑዓን
ወ“የደቅቅ፡ ጸስናነ፡፣ ጋጥጻን።

5. [(ወይገፈትጸመ፡ ሲነገሠመት፣ ጸመናብርቲሆሙ፡፡

ወጻመንገሥመፒሆሙ፡፡)

ኣስመ፡ ዚ’ያሴዕልዎ፡ ወxጺይዴሴቤብሕያዎ፡
ወጺዴድገንዩ፡’ ጳኣምጸይቴ፡'" *ትወህበገ፣ ሎመ፡ሪ መንግሥት
6. ወገጺጸ፡ ጸኒዓን፡ ዶገፈትa፡።
ወድይመስአጸሙ ጋፍረት፡።
ወ“ጽእመት፡” ድከውኖመሙ፡'፡ መጋፎሪሆመሙ፡
ወ።00ፀያት;። ይከውኖመ፡'፡ ምስኻካቦመ፡""
ወጺይደሴፈዉ፡ ከመ፤ ይገኘሥሠሉ፡” ጳምስካባቲሆመሙመ፡
ሓስመ፤ “ጺያሴ0ሱ፡ ስሞ፡። ሰኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት'።።
7. ወጻሙንቱ፡ ኮኒ፤ ኣሰ; ይኬን; ከዋክብ1፡ ሰማይ
and fii
does not.
Cf. Ecclus. X. 14 gpdyous GDXGvrey kageiNey 6 kvptos: Wisd,.
V. 23 Teperpeyet 6bdvovs Bvyarey.
NOW we can with some certainty determine the

Hebrew lying behind £I& i for in the next verse (xlvi. 6) we find this verb recurs
in the phrase 18: IN which = vss 5, (see xlviii. 8 for the passive construc-

tion). Thus A1ፈትRm Aሃገመት; አመናብርቲሆሙ፡፣ ወጸመንግመ
ሆሙ =ርኦጋጋክ-ክN ነ=

Prl\Pipiooon pn\ነNbao.
This verse was probably written in the margin as a
more correct form of xvi, 4. iA;
then in our text = egapei Or dvoiret = DY»
corrupt for 2s. FHence for Y" read &IገéትRs
The above conclusions postulate
the existence not only of a Hebrew text, but also of a M5. with marginal alternative
readings.
1 u omits. &Yhi A3 is a strange phrase.
2 9 reads AX:
3 = rvvrpiye

Tove

መናብርቲሆመሙ፡

በፉደበ፡ መሪናብርቲሆሙ፡

9/u,

“Jr

B read

s mI, 8.

ggdyras

from

ድ reads ቤብ:

Pss.

ill, 8;

lviii.,

/ ኣመናብ"

6.

OO

5s c omits.

7 iu,

9 ዴሴብሑ፡

? ax add FE:

1 Cf. Wisd. Vi. 3 €846n api Tot upiouy ] pros

Uuiy,

TEL

በፈደበ፤ ምንባራቲሆሙ፡
8.

mo

i

read

'0

PAOAP

adds ውቲ

5 g prefixes ©.

aie pio

(00). aycedgftinx,a read JEeትi Ct. Hab, ii. 16 hop bya".
2 reads
ወይመልጸi
mf. gu read RAY; / Bei
1 9 prefixes 0. ax read
ይከውን

17 aN.

Im, #78 read

ግሪ;

5 u.,

Zmg

read

0971

7, B 0$ያች፡
» ነ reads መስካቢሆሙ፡
0 F reads over erasure REYY.
wu reads ROP: (sic).
= rm. Other MSS. read መé@EስYi 9 omits next
Seven words through hmt.

7 which read Yi

©.

om

23 = Kpivovgt = ግ.

So all M55. but

The text of this stanza gives no good sense and is very

Corrupt.
If we read 1a and 7b together it is clear beyond doubt that the writer was
making use of Dan. viii, ro « And some of the... stars it cast down to the ground

and trod upon them“

The

corruption originated at all events in part from the

88

መጽሐፈ:

ወ'.የሴዕሰ፡

ኣደዩሆሙ፡፡

ውስት፣

XT

NRE

ልዑል

ወ’ይክዴፎዲጂ፡

ሄበ፡፡ የብስ፡ ወ"የችፎፉ፡፡

ወ“ዙሱ፡፡

ፀመዛ፤

ተኘባሮሙመ፡፥

ሃኛኻ፡

ውስቴታ

ያርኣዩ፡፣

ወጋ ይሎመ፡ ዷበ፡ ብዕሎሙመ፡
ወሃይማኖተመሙመ፡ ኮኔ፤ ሰጸማልክነ፡’ ጻሰ፡ ገብፉ፤ በኣደዩሆሙ፡
ወ“ይካሕድያዎ፡'" በስሙ” ሲኣፃዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት
8. ወዴሰ.ፎዱ፡፡

ጸብያት፡።

ምስትኾባጸ፡”

ዚጸሆ፡

ወሲ“መሃይምናን፡ ኣሰ ስቁሳባን፤ በስመ“ ሰኣገዚጸ፡ መንፈሰት'።።
XLVIIL. ወው: መዋ0ል; CI; ጸሎ; ” 8.£2Y;
intrusion of 7b between

Aaመንቱ; hr: ኣለ
ወይክካይዷ፤

a and Te.

If 1b is genuine it came immediately after

Turning now to 7 we see that it is senseless

£0; የብስ = «ai karararoirw

to the verb here, i.e. read

hE

eri Tijv Yiv.

We

as it stands.

have only to supply an acc.

Pani = karararogrey abrovs in order to bring the

text into line with Dan. viii. ro, save that the latter connects the eri iv Yiv with the

preceding clause. It is now obvious that JE
NEE: i5 a senseless addition.
Moreover this phrase which has here a bad ethical sense has always sood ethical
associations throughout the genuine sections of the Similitudes.
Cf. Xxxvii, 2;
x1]. 6, 75 xviii. 5. In the interpolations, however, it carries with it doubtful or bad
associations : cf. liv, 9; 1v. 1; 1x. 5; xy. 6, &c. Returning now to 7a, the verb in
this clause = 13ግ» which seems corrupt for YoBN = karaBdANovat. For Pbk we
should then read C&S
[he stanza should then be read as follows :—

ወጻሙንቱ፤

ኣሲ; (ሴዕሰ፡

ጻደዩሆመ፡

ውበቱ፣ ልዑሁል፡

ወገያወርዴዷ ካዋክብች፡ ሰማይ
ወይክይደድዎመሙመ፡ ዷበ፡ የብስ፡
Since the stanzas before and after consist of distichs it is possible that the words

a0

aE" © ልዑል; ወ are an interpolation.

' 2 omits.

BB

oO

read AEPa;
5 2 omits; possibly # originally.
1 m reads ስት;
c omits.
2 Z/ read Dt
5 m reads WN;
ag, g6FB8I»a.
gp omit. Fo abco%
read DC.
Al M55. but gu, en
make a dittographic addition here. 2m add

ወዙሱ፡ ትገባሮመ፡ ዐመዛቫ፤ /, 5<d/8 8/0
x a add YY ፀመdi
read ሲጸቻኮልኮች፡

ag, fa.

። ሕዳ
u mu. Bcdla.
5 Fm. Other MSS. read መSEስYi

g,eFIR0p (nw)

# omits.
“LL

"rm omit

read hi

nu

agcx mሕድp;

9, efhinop (vw) read ስ; a Nav
mgw, 8 read ወይሰደዲ.
“mu.

g, 718 read AY:

gu (save that 9 writes last letter as A). m reads መስት:

/, 96/58/0885 ምስትኾቡጸ፡

ሪያ ኣስትጊቡጸ፡

7 w, abc ge. reads OCIYi mi FBRIn0 xa

ምስትጌቡጸን፡
3C1Y; 9 OCT

15 Zreads ሲ. abx®.
* ax add ቅዲሰY;

XLVIL. 14.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛካ፡

89

ወ“ደመ፡;፡ ጻ.ፎቅ፡;፡ ኣም! ም.ፎር፡ ቅድመ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት
2. በኣሳባ።። መዋዕል፤ የጋብፉ፡፡ ቅዱሰን፤ ጻሰ፡ የጋ.ፎፉ፡፣ በ‘መልዕልት፣ ሰማት
ወ'የበተበፉዑ፣፥ ወይጴልዩ፣ ወይሴብሑ
ወየጸዙቲቱ፡

ወይባበርኩ፡

ሰስመ፡።

ሲ“ጻግዚጸ፡

መንፈሳት

በጻን1፣ ደመ፡ ጻ.ፎያቃን፤ ዘሃትክዕወ፡”
ወ"ጸሎተመ፡ ሰጻ.ፎቃን፤ ከመ፤ “ት ጸራዕ፡፡ “በቅድመ
ከመ፡ ዴትገበር፡። ሎመ“" ኔኔ
ወትፀኘሥመኝ፡” ዚዴኩጌ። ሎመ፡፣ ለዓለም።
3. በ“ጻማንፒቱ፡። መዋዕል፡። ርጺኻዎ፤ ሲርኣሰ፡ መዋዕል፡
ወመጻሕሐፍች;።

ወ”

ሕያዋን

ጋይደሱ፡።

በቐ.ፎሆሁ፡።

ዘመልዕልት፡

በሄቃል፡

ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት

ሶበ፣ ነበረ; መኘኝበረ፡። ስብሐሕቲሆሁ፡።

ተከሥቱ።”

ሰማ.ያት፡ ወ።ጸውይ፡

ዚጸሆ፥ ይቁውመ፡

በቅ.ፎሆ።፡።

4. ወልቦመ“ ሰቅዲሰሳን፤ ትመልኣ፤። ፍሥሠመሓ፡
ላስመ፤ ቀርበ፡። ቱልቋ፡። ሰ“ጽፎቁ፡
ወጸሎተትመ፡

ወደመ

ሰጻ.ፎቃን;። ችሰምዕበ;።

ሰጻ.ድደቅ፡ በቅድመ

1 g omits.

read መS&hስትi
read 3ብፉ፡
SBR

= m reads £2];

2m.
የጋ.ፎፉ፤፡

BOE

ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳኝ፡፡ ትፈቅደ።"

0 REY

mn adds REP

Other MSS. read በAy;
9 የገፎፉ፡

defecHve Eres

2.
‘e OESP,

መ ዩየጋብፉ፡
A

mga, abcden read OPA". £ trans. after DRC

«rm. Other MSS.

570A).

Zu, apcdehiin

9 የጌፎፉ፡

OOM

/።, 3 ይነብሩ
BOB

= ay/w, ace.

pb FIBRIN op (vy xa በስ
»፡ ስመi wu omits.
Yn0ወት፣
'" " asx omit.
15 Fg abCFBRInoX,ab.

5 m= omits.
m reads TBC;

9 reads Nye;
@ reads
u £Aራ);

4 ይጽራዕ፡ “ትጽራሣi
“Ve/h8n op (5 0) xB read በpEeBU; AA.
se prefixes &.
5 mm reads Wit;
0 ሠ read ወት ዕመት
2 tu, Ba. mgax read Rይhውy;
= a. 8B ወቢ.
5 9 reads PAE
4 m omits.
= መ reads 1005
i)
gu, 8 prefix 0.
7 m reads ስብሐት!
= 9 reads pመጻፍYi (sic).
= dg reads
ቅድ
eno trans. በp.E” afer Yh:
% m reads ThሥYi
a 2 puts in acc.
F075 cd6/BRINnIoy,ay.
ma Frabnex omit.
5 Fmu., #8 read peg:
g በድ;
/። obelizes. # adds here the following dittography: thE; #ሉ 5:

HዘመልOAት ሰማያት ወጸውደ፤ ዚጸሁ፡ ዴቁውመ፡ በቅድሆሁ፡
In # this dittography
appears as Tht; tሱ: Jይሱ; HመAOATms
No other M5. shows any trace of
this dittography.
1 wu reads PAA
5 a. B reads በጽ:
Sa.
mH
read HAE;
7 m reads 8.EY:
5 9 reads ቅዱሰን
5 9 reads ሰ);
መ, 4,9 ትሰምኝ
0 Zu, B.
reads ትፈ:
m ትፈ
9 1YYE:
N

90

መጽጠፈ፡

XLVIII.

QውኣE:

መኻy:

ወ“ዘውዳ;፡

የጸውዳ፡፡

ብዙሣ፡፣

Cጺኩ

ዛኛኖኝ፡

1¥0;፡ ጽ.ቅ፡

ጸንቅዕጊ፡

RTT

Es

ዘ'ጺደትቴለሰቀ

ጥበብ፡

ወሸሎመ፡ ጽሙጻጌ፡ ኣምኔሆመ፡፣ ይሰትዩ፥ ወይትመልጵ፡፥ ጥበበ
ወ'"መጋፎሪሆመሙ፡" መምስሰ፡ “8ጻ.ፎቃን፡ ወ“ቅዷሰን፡። ወሣፉያን፡
2. ወ“በይኣጻቲ" ሰዓነ፡'፡ ትጺጻውዐ፡ “ወልደ፤ ሰብጻ፤ ዝኩ፡። በኘበ፡ ኣግዚጸ፣ መንፈሳት"
ወስመ” መቐ.ፎመ; Cai; መዋ0ል፡
3. ወዘጻንበሰ፣

ትትፈጠር፡።

ፀሕሐዶ፡ ወታጾምር።

ኣንበሰ፡። ዶትገበፉ፡። ከዋክብተ ሰማይዶ
ወስመ“ ትጻውዐበ፡" በቅ.ፎመ፡፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት።"
4. ውኣቲ፡ ይክከውን፤ በትረ፡ ሲሰጻደያቃን;። ከመ፤ ቦቱ ይዴትመረኾዘ፡”
ወውጻቲ፡ “ብርሃ ጸሕዛብ፡።
ወውጻቱ፡' ዴከውን፡ ትስፉ፤ ሲኣሰ፡ የሐምመሙ፡።” በልቦሙ”
5. ይወድቁ”

ወዴሰፃዲ፡።

ወይሴብሕዎ

ወይባርክዎ፤”። ወድዜምፉ፡

6. በጻንትሽ፡።

ኮኔ ሣፉዩ፡ ወሣቡጸ፡

በቅ.ፎጃሆ፡"

gt, Bread pf.

2 0.

mu.

ቅ.ድጃሆሁ፡

ሹቸሎመ፡

ወጺይደቁ፤።

ኣሰ፡ የጋ.ፎፉ፡ ዷበ፡። የብስ፡

ሰ"ጻፃዚጸ፣

መንፈሰት'።።

mtread Wp;

On Wp0: / adds gloss R6Y;

5 2m, 0b. Other MSS. read ©.
+ ዘሃ read ዴት ሰቅ ያ ጺድዴቕሲቀፉ፤
7. ያ።
rad ዘውዳ
mn, FhRn Aዓውዷ፥
“aፀያረde/oxyas በ0ውዲ
TR
mo CFB Rnop(w)B read YEP; (Tim). gXRAውE:! / tO0ውET:i apg/xya
የዐውደ
i gF/u, B-abno.
m, no(vyh read ብዙ»:
5 ብዙን): “5 ብዙ
5 0 omits next six words through hmt.
Sf abce/hnoxs.
mu ghJUw)y
ኣምኔሆሁ፡
Al M55. of 8 trans. ም
after ሰት
i g omits.
TN

mn, 153 AEP:
ጻ.E2Y;
ውቲ

= mn omits.

au reads 8E2Y;

n omits. a trans. A” and ወሣኝ".
15 Zim, B. gu read ሰ0ት'; 7 0AY.

read YችYAaውኝ፡

NB Fmg

m0» B-a.

# reads

11 uw B. Fm omit.
Eas
7 gu, abcde. mhFBRInoxayp

(=6 vibe Tot dygpeorou

éxeivos).

w3

Hh

DAE

ሰብኣ፡

» Fm. Other MSS. read መe&NስትY;
0 miu, 3. ZF reads hoi
9 ስ;
2 a. 8 ይትፈጠር
= 2. mgt 8 read DYAC:I
u omits.
Sm.
hpB-h
read HAaንበA; #, /። (5) 0 ወHኣንበሲ:
4 g reads "INC:
5 B-a ad ወቐቅዲሰን፤

Fax AAA};

against a.

reads ጺRD.EE;
% 0 prefixes ©.

3, ace/Bnox,h.

= a, po(2)y,ap.

B-Boy,a,h read ትመር

25 9 reads ብርሃን; ሲጸሕዛብ፡
uF reads AE:

mg/u, 0g8ly»,a read ውhኸች

5 Fg.
m reads Noi
9° Aap
5. Other MSS. read SENT;

=m

5 Fmt.
9,8 read Shap
55 e trans. ወድቁ; and ይሰ".

5 9g, B trans. before ወዴቤብhZ;

over an erasure.
/ rE A
8B FE: Ah;
5 9,8 prefix @ against g mtu.

XVII 6—ro:

መጽሐጠፈ፡

ህኛነ፡

91

ዘኣንበሰ፡፡ “ይቸፈጠር፡ ዓሲም፤ ወኳስከ፣ ሰዓሰም።፣
7. ወ።ከሠት፡፡ “ሰቅዲሰኘ፤ ወለጻ.ፎቃን፡፡ ጥበቡ፡፡ ለኣፓዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት።
ሓጻስመ፡ ዐቅበ፡ ካፍሉ'መ፡ ለጻ.ፎቃን፡
ሓላስመ፤ ጸልኣዎ፤ ወመነንዎ፤ ለዝ፡፡ ዓሰም፡ ዘዓመዛ፣
ወሎ; ምግባሮ፡፤ ወፍናዊሁ ጺልሉጽ፡ “በስሙ ሲ'’ጻንዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት"
ሓጻስመ፡ በስመ ዚጸሆሁ፡ ይ.ፎሣፉ፡
ወበፈቃዲ፡።

ኮ፤ ሲ"ሕይወተሙ።

86. ቢ'ከንቱ። መዋዕል፤ ከካፉ፡ ተሑጋኝ፤፡ ገጽ፡ ነሃገመች፡ ምድር
ወቛኒፉዓን፤ ጻሰ፤ ዴጻሣዝዊ፡፡ ሲዩብስ፡ በጻንተ፡ ምበሪ" ጻደቐሆሙመ፡
ሓኣስመ፡ በዕለተ፡ ጻዕቆዋመ፡። ወጻሕቦመ፡ ዚይፎሣኒ፡" ርጻሶሙ።
9. ወ።ውስት፣

ጸዴሆመ“።

ሲ“ሣፉ.ያ፤፡ ዚጸዩ;። ጳጻወዷየዮመ፡።

ከመ፡ ሣዕር፡ ውስት፤ ጻሰኝ፥ ከመዝ" ድውዕዩ፤ ኣምቅ.ድመ፡ ገጸ፤ ቁዲዷፉለሰን፡።
ከመ፡። ዐረር፡ ውስች፤ ማደ፤ ድሠጠመ፡።” ጸምቅ.ፎመ፤ ገጸ፤ ጻ.ፎቃገ፡”
ወጺይደት'ረከብ፣ ሎመ፡ ጸሰር።።
10. ወበቢ“0ሲተ፡;።

1 ያ/u.

ጻሕበ፡ ዚጸሆሙመ፡

መ reads AYበለ፡

ዕረፍተ”

ችክከውንኝ፡ ዷበ፡። ምድር”

9, 5 ጳምቅ.ፎመ፡

= 7 omits.

be

add በቐድሟሆሁ፡

gy add ድሆ

against a9, eZ tn 0.

« m reads th;

a ከሠችሮ፡

5 ሃu, {1 read A."

ወሰቅዲ".

ድህ ead ወጥበበ

5 መያ, g-»,

7 ወATበብ፡ » omits,
TZ. Other MSS. read መና&ስት;
$ a, B except 9,
eFhpo(owy 5 which give AYE
° 9 reads በስመ;
10 Fm. Other MSS. read
መፍፍስት
nu Z omits.
5 F. miu, Boy read ፈቃዴ; I ወፈ2ዳ:
0 ()» 8 ወፈቃዲ፡
5 @ omits.
ta. 8 reads Df.
5 Fw
QhንE: 15
clearly corrupt, mt 8 read በው:
hYE; is corrupt for NYE:
15 ab read
ይጻሣዝዎ፡
7 g reads Ae:
5 ach read Shs
c adds Opa (sic).
5 5 reads ዚድሣኒi

Fa Xያፎ»ፉ፤

ያድግ፤

0 ያ0/ዜ

5 በሃፍፎስመ

5 ፍስሙ፡

5
reads ውAti
» fi
5 FmHu.
Bread AERP;
3 dg reads H.
= mn reads HAJHLRብሔC:
5.
Other MSS. give the usual form ADE av;
7 prefixes ©.
5 g prefixes ©. This word together with the next four m omits

and all other MSS. wrongly trans. after Ei
7 0/u. B reads Rድ2Y;
Sgmfhu.
0, #3 read Dh;
5 All MSS. prefix ©.
a. B reads
ቐዲሰን
umf g. gu RN
25 gy omit.
Sng
HW ead
0ረፍቫ፣
words,

adds ዚጸሆሙ፡

a.

8 reads በ£f

5 dg omits next three

99

መጽሐፈ፡

ወበቸ.ድሆሙመሙ፡፡

ይወቁ

ዛኛካ፡

XLV IL. ro—L,

[ey]LH

ወጺደገገቻሉ፡?

ወጸልቦ፡፡ ዘደትሟጠዎመ፥ በጻዴሆሁ፡’ ወያነሥመጸሙ፡
ኣስመ፡ ክሕ.ድዎ፡ ለኣፓዚጸ፡ መንፈሳነ፡፡’ ወለመሚሑ፡፡
ወፎትባረኝ፤ ስመ“ ሲኣግዚጸ፣፡ መንፈሳት
XLIX. ኣስመ፡ ጥበብ፡;” ዕው” ከመ፡ ማይ
ወስብሕትኝ፥ ዚትጋልቅ፡ ቅፎሆሁ፡። ሰዓሰመ፡ ዓለም።
2. ኣስመ፡ ጋያል፡ ውኣቱ፡። በዙሱ፡ ሣቡጻት፡ ጽድቅ
ወ’ዓመባ፡

ከመ፡

ወምቐዋመ;’፣

ጽላሎ

የጋልእፍ

ጸልስቦ፡

ኣስመ፤ ሣፉይ፡;። ቁመ፡ በ"ቅ.ድመ፡፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት
ወስብሕቲሆ፡ ሰዓሰመ፡ ዓሰም
ወ።ሣይሱ፡፥ ሰትውልደ፤ ትውልፎ።
3. ወቦቱ የጋ.ፎር፡ መንፈሰ፡ ጥበብ
ወመንፈስ;

ዘሌበ፡።

ወመንፈሰ; ትምህርት ወጋዴል፡
ወመንፈሰ ኣሰ፤ ኖመ“ በ።ጽ.ፎቹ።
4. ወውጻቱ፤ ይኬንን፤ ዘጎቡጻት፡።
ወነገረ; በክ; ጸልቦ;። ዘዴክል፡ ብሂሰ፤ በቐፎጃሆ፡
ሓጻስመ፤ ሣፉድ;። ውኳቲ፡።” በቐድመ፡ ኣኘዚጸ፡ መንፈሳ” በክከመ፡። ውኣጻቱ ፈቁደ።
L. ወበ።ጸማንቲቱ፡። መዋዕል፡ ሚጠት; ። ችከውን፣ “ሰቸዲሰን፣ ወ።ለሣፉ.ያን

'a-7.

9፣ reads PEBሆs

5 በቅድ;

2 m reads “JA
4 F/u, 8B.
Sm.
Iu, 3 read SEN;

2 m reads OEY;

hmit.
® Zs omit against mg, B.
m. Other MSS. read መé&ስትi
መንፈበ፡ ጥበብ
n gu. Z reads nO@; (sic). m8 YO:
ኣምቅ.ድፎሆ፡

ፍንዋገ፡

ወምቅዋም፡

1 Fg/u.

5 Some word, not AY;

4» ሣቡጾ፡

erased in 2m.

5 11 reads DA.

5 a reads H,

Su,

a omits.

B. # HAA

a translation of rd.

#1 SRY

5 2 reads Jr;

5 e omits.

ወበብሕቲሆ፡ ሰንሰመ፤ ዓሲም
1 መጠኔ
5 ሚጠት

am,

15 9 reads AYA:

5 7, B trans. after Pap; against a9.

m,8 read mii

9 omits.

mg read DRA;
2 a. 8 reads በጻደዊሆ፡
7 F omits this and four following words through

" 0cX read
5 Z alone has
B~gy.,

mau omits.

= ያ ዘዴቤሲ፡

mM reads

EBB
mM 2 omits.

5 ድ reads መንፈስ;

and m HግቡAY:
= ra tovrra, H being here

25 F(/7)u read hi
0 Fm.

7 9 prefixes ©.

Other MSS. read መé&Eስትi

51 m reads Poi ©.
5 9 reads AE:
a m omits, 9 omits ©.

m adds

nay.

RS

መጽሐፈ:

ወ'ብርሃ፤፡

መዋዕል፡

ደቤሆመ።

ዛሄኛኻ፡

93

የጋ.ፎር፡

ወስብሐሕት፣ ወኳብር፣ ለቐዲሳን፡ ዴትመዩጥ፡
[0'0ለት፡፣ ኳንች። ጻሕብ።
2. ዘተዘንበ፡፡ ኣኩየ። ላዕለ ጋጥጻን፡|
ወይደመውዙ፡

ጻ.ፎቃገ፡፡ በ“ስመ፡፥ ሲ'ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት"

ወ“የርጺ፡ ለካልጻን፡;። ከመ፤ ዴጓነስሑ፡
ወዴደሕድ፣፡ ምፃባረ፡ ኣደዩሆሙ።
3. ወ“ዚ“ይከውን፤

ሎመ“

ብር፡"

በስመ፡'፡

ኣኘዚጸ፡

መንፈሳት"

ወበስመ ይ.ፎሣፉ፡
ወኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት" ይምሕሐሮመ።
ኣስመ" ብዙሣ፤ ምሕረቱ።"

4. ወ“ጺ.ደቅ፤ ውጻቱ፡” ወ።በዙዜሆ፡
ወበቅ.ድመ፡ “ስብሐ ዚጸሁ፡። ወ“ዓመዛ፡ ዚትቁውም፡
በዙኔሁ፡። ዘጂጺዴቫጌሳሰሕ፡። ቅፎጃሆ፡። ዶችትሐጕል፡።
5. ወኣምይጻ፡። ዚይደምጨሕሐሮመ፡ ደቤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሰት'።'"
LI. ወበጻማንቱ፡ መዋዕል “ታፓገብጻ፡ ምድርኒ ማኝፀንታ፡
ወሲጾስልኒ፣ ፓገብኳ፤ ዘተመጠወኝ።”
1 gu omit.

2 f reads ብtt:

the opening of a new

‘ያ.

መዝገብጸ፡

2 a.

sentence.

፣ሃ' ዘገብረ፡

1h

ያ ተዛኘበ፡

@ reads Of.
Bee

mow,

።,"። ዝጊበ፡

This latter makes this

ea 0AY:

5» ትዘገብ፡

2 e omits.

/» ትሽንግብ፡

፲n

these readings # and #, 7 are equivalent to (éy Ti jiuépa "iis AiYVeos) 7} Tegnravptruévn.

The readings of the other MSS. appear to be attempts at emendation. The passage
1s Corrupt or interpolated. 1 have bracketed it as the latter.
፣'aIn 7. 9A

m omits. fs reads Ahይi 8 AY
Fm. g/u, Bread mSENስትi
2 / appears to have prefixed @.
1 Bcnoas omit,

5 g reads Ae

Other MSS. read መSENስY:i
ውቲ

s ሠ ads በክብፉ፣ ወ.
2 f reads Nani
7, n read Pos (corrupt? for eli?) m omits.
5 mu.
ድ reads ትመ
/ 3 ነስሑ

15 bረoxB

5a.

/5 8B read በቅድ:

RON

c omits next four words through hmt.

read ምረት

0 m reads &.EY;

7 omits sufhx after ቢfJy:i 5 omits 0 before Wf.

1 am,

=a. 8 ስብሐቲሁ:

5 This may be a dittography from preceding line.

s m adds
B~u omit.

= 9,

omit.

5 Fm gu save that 2 prefixes @.

7 reads HATYኔሰ: 75 HAN:
a0. 97, 8 read በpEayi
7 m pre
fixes DA
5 9, 8 read "AA:
5 SO f save that for 41H (7, 8)
it substitutes the gloss A; THI ውስE7i
C{ 4 Ezra vii. 32. /' u are defective:
ፓገብኳ፡ ሲጾል፡ ማሕፀን ዘተመጠወት፣
/" ads ወምድርኒ i» /' ar ወማሣፀንኝ፡
B has a conflate text based partly on the original behind £ and on /#: ታብ:

ምድር፡

ማሣፀንታ፣፡

ወሲጾል፡ ታፓገብኣ፡ (የ1" •) ማሣፀንኝ፡

ዘተመጠወት፣

(ዘመጠወት፣ 9).

94

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

LI. x11.

ወሕጕኮል፡ „ገብኣ፡ ዘ’ይደፈዲዴ።
2. ወየጋሪ፡፡ ጻ.ፎቃኔ፡ ወቐቅዲዱሰኔ፡፡ ኣምኔሆመሙመ።
ኣስመ፡ ቁርበት ዕሰገ፡፡ ከመ፤ ጸመሙንቱ ድፎሣኒ።፣
3. ወሣፉድ፡፣ በኣማንፒቱ፡ መዋዕል፡፤ ፉበ፡ መንበርዩ፡’ ይነብር

ወሸሉ;፡ ሣቡኳት፣ ጥበብ፡ ወ"ተኣምሕሊና፡ ጸፉህሁ፥ ይወፀኣ፤"
ኣስመ፡። ኣፓዚጾ፡ መንፈሰሳነ፡። ወሀቦ“ ወሰብሖ።
4. በ"ጸማንቱ፡

መዋዕል፡ ዴይዘፍፉ፡ ጸፎባር፡ ከመ

ወጸውፃርኒ፡ የንፈርዕፀ፡"፡ ከመ፡ መሓስዕ፡

ሐራፉ፡

ጽጊበሃ፤ ሐሲሊሣብ፡

ወይደከወውቱ፡። ዙሱ፡" መሳት" በ።ሰማይዶ፤ ገጾመ፡ ድበርሁ፡።
5. ኣስመ፡ በጻማንቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ሣፉይ፤ ትገንሥመይ፡
ወም.ፎር፤

በፍሥመሓ፡።

ትትፌሣሕ፤።

ወጻ.ፎቃን፤ ዷቤሃ;። የጋ.ፎፉ፡፤
ወፇጓፉቸያን፡

ዲቤሃ”

የሐሙውፉ፡።

|(ወያገሶስዉ።]።

LI. ወጸም.ፎሣረ፤ ለማንቱ፡ መዋዕል፤ በውኣቲቱ፡ መኻኝ፡”

በኝበ፡;” ርጺኩ፡ “ሹሉ

g agrees with B save that for the second y4BiY; it reads AኝBIYi
with 8 save that it omits the first y4B}Yi

iu

‘mt FInxa.

° 9 reads 0AY;
read BARI

Smgabe/oxs.
a. 8 miበti

ms also agrees

and the second ታብ

put in acc. and all members

2 f= reads AH.

ራኣሇያ፡።

of a8, except 2, write ሐል;

036i,

BFInxa Dh:

not ሐል:

9 puts in nom.

tina PED
ucg8 EY
Py
a9. This reading points to PወፀAs below

and not ወፀ
5 tN
iE
UO EB SOR:
n Either emend Lp into
PወO0Ai and omit A or better retain PO” reading Wi above, and trans. An
before RW.

5 a7.

98 D0.

5 ns omits.

5 Fm.

5/8.

gu, Bread mé&ENY;

mፈር00:

ያ hy:

1s m adds AMY;

ICY:

which words it

trans. after hi
7 m/w, 8. 9 መሕስR
5 9 reads Bድhው yi
amg.
ፃ ለዙሰ፡። », 5 ሹሎመሙ፡
0am.
m, 8 መAANY:i Here the old MSS. retain the
original reading, where መAAM:Y is the subject and not the predicate, and 'JR0 is
an accusative of limitation; Or ap" may be taken as a nominativus pendens resumed
in JR;
1 m omits.
=F. Here hoki £CU; are to be taken together.
Other MSS. Cy;
5 መ ችችገሣል፤
#a-g, Ba. a trans. after 2.
7,0 read NEY; and trans. after $2".
5 aim Iu, B., mw omit.
5a=gy,

# omits.
a

9, 7B read ውኸስቴ2;

dittography.

me fu omit.

It is supported

5 m reads DIC:

7 mn reads hውርi
by £9

g omits.

(save that 9 omits

0 8 reads 0;

5 Bracketed as
the @), 1B,

Og trans.

but

TRS 5
ዘበጎቡኣ፡።

ኣስመ፡

ትመሠጥኩ፡

መጽሐፉ:

ህና:

“በነኰርኳረ፡

ነፉስ።

95
ወወሰደኒ፡።

ዓረበ።፡

2. በህዩ።

ርኣዩ ጸዕዶንትዩ፡ ሺሉ፡ ሣቡጻተ፣ ሰማይ፤ ዘይኩን፡። ሀሉ’ ደብረ፡'' ጋጺጌ፡ ወደብረ፤ ጸሪቅ
ወ.ደብረ፤ ብፉር፡ ወደብሪ፡"። ወርቅ፣ ወደብረ፡ ነጠብጣብ፡ ወደብረ፡ ዐረር።
3. ወችስኣልሕክዎ፡
ሰመልጸኻ፡ ዘ“ምስሴዩ፡ የሐውር" ኣንዘ፡ ኣብል፡ ምንቫ፣ ውጻቱ፡ “ጻሙንቱ፡ ኣሴ” ኣሰ፡።
በቢ"ሣቡኣ፡ ርኩ
4. ወዴቤሲኒ፡ ኣሲ ሹሎመ፡ ዘርዚክ፡" ሲ’”ስልጣ መሲሑ ጻመንቱ፡"
ይክካውተ፤ ከመ፤ የጸዝሽ፡ ወ“ይትጋዩል፡። ደበ ምፎር።

5. ወጸውሥመጸ፤። ጻን;

ይብሲ፤ኒ፡።

ውጻቲቱ፡ መልጸከ።

ሰከ"

ዘክከሰሰ፡።

ሰሳባም፡ ጽናሕ፤ ንስቲት፡።” ወይዴትከሠኝ፡

ኣጻግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት

6. ወ"ኣሱንቱ፡።

ጸድበር፡

ዘ“ርኣያ፡

ዙሱ፡።

ዘሣቡኣ፤

ጸዕዶንቲከ፡።

ደብረ ጋጺኘን፡ ወደብረ፡ ጸሪቅ፡ “ወይብረ፤ ብፉር፡።
ሂወ.ደብረ፡ ወርቅ; ወ.ደብረ፡ ነጠብጣብ፡ “ወ ደብረ፤ ዐረር"
ኣሰ ዙሎመ፡፥ ቅፎሆ፥ ለሣፉይ፤ ይከወቱ፡።” ከመ፡ መዓረ፤ 7ራ፡። በቅድመ”
ወከመ፡ ማይ; ዘይወርድ ኣምሳዕሰ፡ ዷበ፡ ጳማንቱ፡ ጸፎባር፡
ወይከጦቷ፡ „.ፎኩማ፤። በቐ.ፎመ፡። ኣገሪሆሁ።
7. ወይክካውን;" በጻማንቲቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ዚጺድ.ፎሣፉ፡

ኣሳ

ዚበ“ወርቅ፡ ወጺበ“ብፉር
ወጺዴካሱ፡።

ጕኮዩዩ።።

85. ወጺይክውን፤

ጋጺን።

ሰፀብኳ፡።

a9. 9,8 HAቡA፡
፣ 9 reads በመገንኰራችረ፡ ነፉሰት፣ ። በነኰርኳረ፡ ጻሳት ወነፉስ፡
5 05m. Zu, B~» read ወሰዲii
» ሰዲ:
1, mg/ read Oe; which, being
ungrammatical, /#B8 retained, but set rieht by prefixine ስቲ
a0, 0.

ወ, 8-8 መበህዩ፣
M55. Hድnውy:
uu 72 omits.

‘em.
»

0/8 CAE:
7 B trans. after ሰማ;
8 add 0 (7 on.) ዲበ; ምEር፤ against a9.

5 me omits.

5

reads ሃብ:

SE, Othe
» 2 omits.

ag. 9, B trans.

» adds

ወምን
a= ae piI0yab.
wfread AYE:
» Ai
cg%x A AYE:
i5 » omits.
" # reads Hl.
5 dg omits next three words.
oN reads
ሓሰ ርጺከ፤ » ዘርጺኩ፡
0 0u read 0.
ጋ # reads Ji
። ዴት'2የል
EIB aE
5 9 reads ©.
„4-7. ያ ዶዴቤሰኒ፤ 5 ዴብል፡
5 0 reads

መልጸኻ፤

። መልጸሕኻ፡ H.

5 8 adds ወትመጺ

5 a=,

mm, 8 HYክሰ፡

5 F save that 1 have corrected the final letter f+ with +.

Other MSS. me &NስYy;
m reads CA: RO
ወደ" ጺጸሪቹ፡
5

ያ በቅፎመ፤ ገጸ፡

0 dy omit.

8 reads CAN:
adds በቅድ

1/ ጺኮዩዩ

5 m reads hai

5

ግ
7B

B-.

gush read WN:

#8 AYE:

5 a Save that

5 9 trans. after CY;
5 wronely reads 25

8 ዘቅድመ፡ ገጻ

fh e/Bnoltow)» read በታhYi
5 b reads Dx.
o Of.

ar

mh

reads FWY:

reads nk;
add iH OD:

o h4ei

2a ms trans. before
Jag. ያHቅድመ፡

Sa
1

fhabcgiIxa.

reads DA.
A, of.
“tL
mg, 8 read ‘Ft:

trans. before KዴnውY;

45 g omits.

96

መጽሕፈ፡

ህኖ:

JERR

RSEEE

ወጺልብስ፡ ሲድርዐ፡ ኣንፃድንኝ፡
ጺዴዶበፉዕ። ብርት .
ወናልኳ፡፡ |ጺድበፉዕ፡ ወ'ዚዴይት ጌሰ
ወጸ፡0ረር፤ ጺድትፈቁድ።

9. ኣሱ ሹሎመ፡ [(ይትክሕዳ፥ ወኮዴቸሕኮሱ፡
ሶበ፡ ያስትርዉ፡

ሕፉዶ፡

ሀለዉ ጻምገጺጸ፡ ምድር፡

በቅ.ድመ፤ ገቛ፤ ሰጻፃዚጸ፡ መናፈስት።"

L111. Qyዩ;" ርኣያ; ጸዕይንትዩ።

ቈሳባ፡። *ርሣወ፡

የጋ.ፎፉ፥

ወደሰያት

ጁበ፡

የብስ፡

ወ“ባሕር፡

ወፀመሙቁ፡።

ጸምጋ፤

ጸፈዩሁ፡"

ወ“ጸስትዓ፡።

ወጋዳ፡

ወሸዙሎመሙ፡

ኣሰ

ያመጽሉ፤

ሎቱ

ወዝኩስሰ፡” ዕሙቅ ቘቈሳ፤ ዚይደመልጻ።
2. ወኾጋዩ፡። ጸደዩሆመሙ ዴገብፉ።
ወስ; ። ዘይጻምዉ፡

ሰሲ“ጌጋይ፡። ጋጥጻን፡

ድዴበልዑ፡”

ወፖጻምገፉ፡

ሲጻፓዚጸ፣ መንፈሰት።። ዴይትሐጕኮሴቡ፡ |ጋጥጻን፡|

ወኣምገጸ፡።

ም.ፎረ፡። ዚጸሆሁ፡ ይትቁወመሙ፡።

ወ[ጺ]"የኘልቁ፡ ሰዓሰመ፡ ዓሲሰም።
3. ጻስመ፡

ርጺኻዎመሙ፡።

ለ“ዙሎመ፡።

መሳኣሕት፡

Ff e/hnab.
mu,abctlox wxAAብNi
add the dittographic phrase ፀብ; ጺAAስ;
5 g prefixes ©.

? a.

Bag

ጻንዘ፡

a8 ወጺና:

» read ARYA

“የጋድፉ፡።

ወያስተዴ

9 OxድAብስi
4 AብNi
TESS ECO

o omits next three words through hmt.

read ወጺናOMi

Here au
OEY

4 9 reads ብCYi

“ በት:

5 AS this clause destroys the

parallelism 1 have bracketed it as an intrusion.
mu,

መቅሠፍገ፣

7, B-nx.

9 omits with the © preceding.

X reads RRችዌAT:

Sag.

omits,

B reads ©.

5 Bracketed as an alternative rendering of YnI15, which was rendered, as 1 conceive,
by Grapgilovrat and by Sbayrgilrovrat in the margin, or sce versa; both renderings

being subsequently taken into the text.

1 reads RRYhhs.s

u omits.

5 Im reads

መንፈሰ
n a4. 9,8 read OVE
= c reads ROEYLE:
5 u reads WA
# ያ.
ያ ጻባ ሰበሙቁ፡ ወርሣግወ፡
/።, B-» ዕሙቁ፡ ወርሣግጦ፥
። ዕሙቁ፤ ዘርሣው፡
5 mended from R&P; of
mu. 9/ read AP
8 RU:
15 m reads Of.
7 au omit.
5 sw omits.
» ag, aekn. 9 HY;
Scgibpx,a HEN; F508
ወዝኩ

0 m reads 0p;

=n

መዙ

ያ ሹሙ

bcdgix,a trans. after BA

= mu

B-a. # omits.

1 a reads ALD:

9% a PIE

ጋላ

if genuine is the subject of this verb and of the preceding, but since it is duite
needless in the next line 1 have bracketed it.
5 0 omit against 2m, /*B.

5m. 9/1, Sመናፍስት፡
7 ያዛ. ያመ 8ወጻምገጻ፡ሲ.
uw omits.
Sure8-d 2 PY
(sic). 9 YP

= /8 ያmፀ read ምድር፡
mg ይpውmመ / ትገ;

0 Bracketed as an interpolation.

#' omits, but / and all other MSS, insert.

1 g reads

CAs

5 mI aeh&.

Rhውፉ

an.

BH omit

ZuRሐድCi

Sc InOpXya

TREN IEW

መጽሐፈ፡

አጪ ሹሉ፡ መባልዕት ሰይደጣን።፣
ምስሴዩ፣ ኣሎኘንተ።፡ መባልዕት፡፡ ሰመፉ፣
ሰነገሥመት'፣ ወሰጋ.ያባ፤"
ያስተርዉ፡።

በስሙ

“ጻ.ድቅ፡

ዝንቱ"

ም.ድር፡

ወሣፉዶ፡

ቤተ፡"

ዛኛኻ፡

37

4. ወችስጻልክዎ፤
ያስተዴልውዎሙ።፣

ሰመልጸክ፡፡ ሰሳም፡፤ ዘየሐውር
5. ወይቤሰኒ፡፡ ጻሎንተ፣?
ከመ፤ ቦቱ: ይትሕጕኮሉ።
6: ወጻም:ፎሣረ“ሽ፡።

ምመትጌበጸ፡”

ዚጸሆሁ፡፡

ኣምይኣዜ፡

ዚይትክልዙ፡

ሲኣጸንዚጾ፡ መንፈሳት።፡።

7. ወ“"ጻሰ፡

ወጸውፃር፡

ጽፎበር፡”

ዴከወፉ፡”

በቅፎመ፡።

ጽ.ፎቁ፡።

ከመ፡ ምድር

ይከውኒ፡። ከመ፡። ነቅኝ፡ ማይ፡

ወ“ዓርፉ፡። ጻድቃን ጳምጻማ፡ ጋጥጻን።።
LIV. ወiጺጻርኩ:= ወትችመየጥኩ፡” ኻልጸ፡ ገጺ፡ ም.ድፎር፡ ወርጺኩ፥ በ"ህዩ፡ ቈሳ፡ ዕሙቁ፡
ኣንዘ፡ ቫኔፎፎ፥ ጻሰሳት።።
2. ወ።ጸምጽጻዎወመ፡። ሲነገመት፡ ወለ።ጋ.ያሳን፡ ወይወ.ፎ
ድዎሙ፡። ውስት፣፡ ዝኩ፡። ዕሙቁ፣ ቈቁሳ።
3. ወበህዩ፣ ርኳያ፤ ጸዐይንትዩ፣
ዘ መባልዕቲሆሙ፡። ሓጻንዘ፡ ድደገብርዎሙ፡ መጸስርተ፡። ሐሕጺን፣፡ ዘጸልቦ፡ መ.ፎለሰውተ።።”
4. ወ“ትስጻልክዎ፤ ሰመልጸክ፣ ሰባም፣ ዘ"የሐውር፡፣ ምስሌና፣ ኣንዘ፡;። ጻብል፡፣ ኣሱ” ኣስረት።

fw abcRInxa. 29 NtEWi wu, F505 DPNYRADS (so also 4 but omits ©).
"22. ነ reaባs መበንት፡ (sic). ሥ"። መባዕልገ፥
5 መባዕሳኘ፡
28 prefix A.
+ reads ለመል:
° £ reads atንቲ፡ ። ወኣቤሉ፡ ለኣሲ፡፥
‘ያያ. /። read መባዕልች፡
ፀመባዕባተ፡("ት፣።). ። a9d5 ዘየሕውፉ፥
፣ያ።. ሃሠ, 5-404 ያስተዳልውዎመሙ፡ የያስተዳልወያ፡
(sic). #04 ያስትዳልዎመሙመ፡
sx omits. a-gu add AH: AA; against 9, 8.
ፀረ/»ቋቂ» ad ያስተዳልውዎመ፡
ዕcgiaadd ያስተዳልውዎመi
“afin
gb Bn NYE
5» ያ.

መ መስተተበባሌ፤

AVF

። aባዛs ስተዴልዉ፤ ad • "“ልእዎመ።
9 gu, nN omit.
"a. 5 AJAY
» as. g omits. 8 reads HHንYE:
5 ድ reads AስትርA:
14 9 reads ጽ.ድሞ; ግፉ:

ያ ምስትጊባጸ፣

"2 omits.

። 5-48 ምስትጊቡጸ፡

» mir iA;

# ምስትፃቡጸ፡

sic). 9/u, 8 ፍስት

15 g reads

2 be Oat:

REE:
x በቅ.ድሆ፡

1g.
mu read ከው:
5am, Bax. m hi
9pm:
5 a4. g, Bn read T&R m omits.
24 B omits, e trans. after Ii

5 g omits.

Sa-gu/BhInoxab.

= m

adds

DCA

1 F reads Ai
0, a omit.

omit.

5g

» omits.

m, B~a read

5

DR

reads ROR YEE:

ZመAO0ALPs

wu, abcde P0ር4

trans.

before

5 ረ reads ጸውጽ".
Paw;

ag

7 m7.

x adds AA

9 3A

IAC:

5 0 reads ©.

B-BcgnXy.

mw reads H.

# Bread መOላLሆPs

5.

” 9 ንጢAY

0 B-FBEInoy

መ/ማ0ሰርጊ፡

omit.

4 a0.
gc 4xy

= ምብዐሳቲሆሙ፡

9 ማጻሰረ፡

። ማጸበስርኘ፡

B-cinamመY™mCY; cna መ3NCY; /መANCYi
» 2. ms 8 read mENY IN:
ዞ መዳልዋቲ፡
Ng
BP
ONE
uu g omits.
5 0p omit.
5 sm omits.
“#. This isa rare word which generally = Béres Or Béoun, whereas we require here
cous.
There is no objection to taking the word in this concrete sense.
[he
rareness

of this word

Aስረቱi

Thus

u# has aራት፣

led to scribal changes in all the best MSS. save 9, which has

መ

ዕረo ማጸመራት፡

ና ማኣሥመራት፡

ማጸመራት፡

ማዕሰርተ፤፣

note 1, D. 98.
O

/ ማኣሰራት፡

። ማዓስራት፣

ሪ።ሃ»ኃዳ መዓራ!

ኋ 5 ማዕሰራት፡

See

95

መጽሐፈ፡

[መበል0ት፣|፡ ሰመፉ።፡ ይዴለሰጪ፡፡

ሄኛኻ፡

LIV. 4-8.

5. ወይቤሲኒ፡ ኣሱ ደዴዴሰዉጢ፡፡ ሰትዕድንት፣ ጸዘዜጹል፡

ከመ" ደትመጠውዎመሙ፡ ወይደይዎመ“፣ መትሕት፡፡ ሱሴ’ ደይን፡ ወጸጻባሄ" ጠዋ"
ዴካ.ደኒ፡። መሳባትሒሆመ፡። በከመ፤ ጸዘዚ፡ ጻግዚጸ፡ መገፈሳት'።"
6. ወ“ሚኻሌል፡
ወገብርዜል፡” ወ“ፉፋሌል፡ ወፋrዜል፡ ውኣጻተመ፡ ያፀንዕዎሙ፤ በዴኣቲ፤ ዕሰት፡ ፀባይ፡
ወ"ውስተ፡ ኣትኝ፡” ዘይደነፎድደ፣ ድወድይዎመ፡። ውጻት፣ 0ለት፣ ካመ፤ ዴትበቁል፡ ጳምኔሆመ።፡።
።ጸፓዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት፡። በ“ዓመባሆመ፡ በኣን1፡ ዘኮኒ፡ ሳባጻከ፡። ሰሰዶጣን፡ ወጸስኝሃዎመሙ፡።
ሰኣጻሰ፡ የፎኗፉ፡ ዷበ፡። የብስ።
[፣. ወበውጻቱ፡ መዋዕል ዶወፀኳ፡። መቅሠፍቱ” ለኣግፓዚይ፡
መንፈሰ”

ወታፓርሑ፡።

ሹሉ፡።

መዛግብ

“ማያት

ዘመልዕልጊ፡።

ሰማሇት፡።

ጸንቅዕነ፡ ኣሰ: መችወች፣ ሰማነ] ። ወ“ኣሲ፡ ጸንቅዕነ፡። መትሕተ ምድር።
1 1 have bracketed this word as an explanatory

the text.

nm omits.

# adds after aስረትi

marginal

|ወዷበ፡

8. ወይዴዴመፉ፡

gloss adopted into

(Ct g MaራY'i O00AY).,

All other

M55.» however, attempt in one way or other to give it a regular syntactical connexion
with the text. Thus ## makes it the subject of the verb and changes ስረት; the original
subject of the verb into a participle qualifying it (see Dp. 97, note 44). Z/ insert a copula
between

the two

nouns.

m, B~g make

the

added

word

a genitive

dependent on

the original word.
For መባAOY; m reads መባዓ: 9 ወመባAOY: / ወመባዕ0ሳY
ሠ መብ0ዕሲች፣ 5-9 መባ0ሳጓ፡ 4 ማዕበሳት
2 9 reads Har
2 reads ስዳ
‘ou, Bn.

መፀ

5 c omits.

» rad ዴዴለው፡

0 9 reads RAN:

B-aa.

2.

7 dg reads PRP;
ካድ.

/1 reads #ቤሆs

mu

FB Rዛዝሌል፡

5 5 መትሐት፡

a, 8 ጠዋ

5 0.

a መላቲ

a መA0AE.

/ ጸዛዜጸል

9 Ffreads HA (sic).

m/w B NE;

3 aH

c reads AHH:

5 Fm. P/u, 8 read መé&ስት;
15 F8F omit.
7 m Zw trans. after Dt:
against 29, 8. / omits © before ACAI
* /B omit.
" a-TiFBSIn0XVa.

g omits. ab cde read 0.
nyu 8. mg omit.
=

0 a9. 9, read እሰት / እች እሰት (sic). 8» ጸቶኔ፣ ጸሰት፡
omits.
Fm. g/u,B~n read AHA: SENT; 9 trans.

before hai

m omits.

= 2 omits.

» ላኣኮ

5 F reads

ARN» p;

» 9 rads መቅሰፍ]፡

መፀዐቱ

5 aim, CdefBhloy,a.

7 መፃ read ውስት

wm.

Other MSS. SEN;

m, abn x read AO:

5 0, ዕኔ, read ድዴመጽል፤
i tu.

m reads

ወትርሣወኝ፣
ያ ወዴትረገወ፡
ሥ5-» ወዴትረንዉ፡
5 aim. Im, Bedi read Wh;
PFacfFhRnowNrms
®» dg omits. £ reads መት; HAY; by a slip.
= 5 omits.
A marginal gloss subsequently incorporated in the text. There were according to
early Semitic views only the waters above the heavens and the waters below the earth:
such also was the View of our writer as appears from the next verse.
Lhe text

in brackets follows # m, #8 save that for AiYO0Y; in ¢ 1 have read RYYOY: with m.
7 supports text save that it reads ሰ; and /1 save that it reads Yi for ሰት;
After AA; # adds ጦልOልት፡ ሰማያት ©.
5 Fm save that ¢ reads RIOT instead

of AYO:

gu read AY¥OY AA.

/ reads only AAs and 5 H.

USES.

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

99

ዙሱ። ማዕት [ዘገ።ምስለ። ማያት ዘመልዕልተ ሰማያት፡፡ ተባዕታይ ውአቱ፡ ወማይ
ዘመትወገ፥ ም.ፎር፡ ጸንስታዴት፡፣ ይጻቲ።
9. ወደደመስሰ፡፣ ሹሎ፡። ኣሰ፡ የንፎኒሂ፡ “£በ፡
የብስ፡ ወጻሰ፤ የፎኗፉ፡፡ መትሕተ ጸጽናፈ፤ ሰማዴ።"
10. ወ“*በኣን1፤ ዘ“ጸጻመርዋ፤
ሲዓመባዛሆሙ፡ ኣንጌ፡ ገብፉ ፉበ፡'፡ ምድር ወበድጻቲ፡ ይትኘኮሱ፡፡”
LV. ወጻም.ፎሣረዝ;'፡

ነመሕ፤፡

ሲ“ኣሰ፡ ፎነብኗ፡" ውስች፡” ዩየብስ።
ከመዝ፡። ሲ"ሸሎመሙ

ማጻክሲዩ፡

ርጻሰ፡ መዋዕል፡

ጻሰ፤ ዶነብፉ፡። £በ፡;” ዩብስ፡

ወ“ ማጻከሴሆመሙ፡።

ወድቤ፡

በከ;

ጸሕኮልክዎመሙመ፡

ሰዙሎሙ፡

52. ወመሐሰ፣፡ በስመ።። ዐቢይደ፡ ከመ፡ ኣምይዴኣዜ፤ ዚጺዶገብር፡

ሃይማኖ

ወት ኳምርት፡ ኣወሄ፤ በሰማያኝ፡። ወይከውን

ኣስክ፡። ለንለም፡

መጦጠሃ፡ መዋዕሲ፡

ሰማይ፡” ዷበ፡”

መድር፤ ወ*ዝ፡ በትኣዘዝዩ፡። ውኣቱ።]......
3. ሶበ፡ ፈቁ.ፎኩ፡ ከመ፡። ጸጽንዖመ፡ በጻ
መሳኳሕኝ፡ በዕሲት፡ ምንዳቤ ወሕሐማም፤ ቅፎመዝ፡። “መሕሠፍትና፤ ወመፀዐዩ;። “ጸ5.ፎር፡
ደቤሆሙ፡። ዶቤ፡ ጳገዚጸብሔር፡። ኣጻግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት።።
4. ነገሠመት፣ ጋ.ያሳን፡ ኣለ፡ ትጋ.ፎፉ።
‘mtu.

g reads tN:

3 ft

5 BX omit.

fru, mn also omit together with

PስAi Yi through hmt. /# restores these words and adds Afi
MSS. read H but the context requires its exclusion.
5 9 reads መAOATYI

All other
a reads

ሰማያት
፣ x reads ሰማይደ፤ 9 adds ማይ 8 add the dittography ማሰ; (ወድ; 4)
ዘመልዕልት፡ ሰማይ (ሰማነ 4).
ና ድ. መ, ። ጸገስትያዊት፣ ያ ጸንስቲድት፣ ሃጸንስቲያዊ፡
# ጸንስታዪት፣ 5-‘። ጸንስታይ፤ ። ጸንስፓዊነ፡
7 £fhae. mgu, Bae read DN;
The next word WANs shows that ZZ are right.
2 2 omits throush hmt. For £0: 9 reads ht;

BEES
በኣንት;i

1 g omits.
Hጸaመርዋ;

5 Zu, e(w).

. . . ወ0ደAaቲ; = 8,dre

‘ag,
የሹሎመሙመ፡
So also # over erasure.

8-5 ሹሲ፡
i
reads

Zmg,fB~e read በAንYH:

Here 1 take

gvoray

(or Toure) =

. ..

kai

éy rotrous

Rok3) , « v1" 12. Here the Greek translator should have rendered 5 by erei and
not by Sede.
5 ag. uw, 8 read በ£0i
4 መ /u. ድ ወይኣቲ፡ 9, “8 ወበጻንተሽ፡

5 ጋህ reas ችሕቶቱሰ፡

15 7 reads DበAYYH:

7 2, » read Qh;

I

Other MSS. omit. % omits preceding word.
» 9, epno(v) Xread tits
a7,
af 8IDB (WY. g, bcqepnnoxs read #0:
Ny omits.
= 9, P8-X.
miu, X omit.
5 » reads AOA; 08 £0
5 m reads DE
5 bcex read ወስት! 05 0.

5 ehop (vz) B read በሰ:
7 aI, e. mM, 8-e IAN;
5 2 prefixes ©.
ጋ adds ወም.ፎር፡
» reads በዲበ፡
= ያ/ » ትጻዛዝዩ፡ ዝ. 9 ዝ፡ ትaዛH፡ በፈቃድና
u, FB Aምዝ:

በችትAዛHዩ (e omits ¢).

SE Omnis.

35 i# Omits.,

= Eurpoggey Tovroy

a misrendering of XI 351).
5a. Breads m0" mp.
ag save that / reads
AO; for £ቤሆPaw; 2 reads YC; LRP 5-4 tC; ANP
, 4 omit.
Here £m, a/h& add መሠት

Om0Y; and bceinon m0 op

Owing (2) to mistranslation of nNY 355.

See note 34.

against 9%, 9,

For Rin text normal form is 4Y .

» my By.
5m. Other MSS. SEY
gi BDcxb. Fm, Bcxy omit.
£9» read HEL: 9, 8-0 add ውስት ። 0 (5)5add £0 and change RON; into tብ0s

100

መጽሐፉ:

ዛኛ፡

PENT

ዩየብሰ፡ ትርጸዶያዎ፡ ሀሰወክሙ፡ ሲ’ሣፉዩ፡ ዚክዩ፤ ከመ፡ ዶነብር፡፡ ውስት፡፡ መንበሪ፤ ስብሕት፡፣
ወይደኬንኖ፡፡ ሰጸዘዜዜልእ። ወሰዙሎሙ፡ ማሕበረ፤ ዚጸሆሁ፡ “ወሰትዕዶንተ፡ ዚጸሆሁ፡፡። ሺሎ
በስሙ“ ሲጻፃዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት።
LVL. ወርጺኩ፡ በህዩ፣ ትዕዴንታት፡። መሳጻክት፡።
መቅሠፍት; ኣንቫ፡ የሐሕውኒ፡ ወ“ድይኣሕዘዙ፡" “መቅሠፍት ወ“"መሣኘረ፡" ሐጺንገ፡ ወብርት።
2. ወተስጻልኳዎ፡ ሰመልእጸክከ፣ ሰሳሰም፡፤ ዘ“ሐውር፡
ምስሌናዩ፤ “ጻንዘ፣፡ ጻብል፡" ሰመኒ፡
የሐውፉ።› “ኣሱ ኣሰ ይጻሣዘ፡። መቅሠፍት።።
3. ወዴቤሰኒ፡። ሰሕፉያኔ ዚጸሆመ፡
ወሲሰፍቁራኒሆሙ፡። ከመ፡ ይትወደዩ፡። ውስተ ንኾኮፀተ። ማዕምቅ፡። ዘቈሳባ።።
4. ወ“ጸሄሃ፡ ይመልእ ውጻቲ፡ ቈሳባ፡ ኣም ሕፉያን፤ ወ“ፍቁራ፤፡ ዚአሆሙ”
ወይት'ዩዳኣ፡። ዕሰት፡። ሕይወተመሙ፡
ወዕሲት፡ ስሕተተሙ፡።

5. ወበጻማንቱ፡።

ጳጻምዴጻላኬ፤

መዋዕል፡

ወይወ.ፎዩ፡። ጸርኣስቲሆሙ፡
የሐውስዎሙመ፡።

ሲነገመት፡

ወ“ዩሀውሕዎሙ፡።

ጽትትቴሲፉ።።

ድገብጽ፡።” መባጻክት፡

“ሰሲምሥመራቅ፡ ሲኘበ፡። ሰብ”
ወ“ ይበውኳ፡

ጳርቱ፡" ወሙ"

ሳዕሴሆመ፡ ። መንፈበሰ፤ ሀውሕ፤

ኣምንበሪሆመሙ፡።

1 B~e trans. before TCR;

against a, ¢. c reads VAs

° dreadsH.

ms pre.

fixes A.
‘“agw. gu, Xread 4&0; 7, aqe/8°8/na0. by omit. cy 0(v)8 read tH;
24-7. 9reads ስብሐቶt: 5 ስብሕትና፤
reads Wis
2/u. m7, 8 read ARHHRA

s F omits through hmt.
1am 0. m9, 8 ች0ን1
it trans. before YOY:
Z# omit,
» £0.
form pw]; ©.

ag. 9, Bread tN
£,m. Other MSS. éEስት;
5 F/. 9,78 read መAANYi H. m መላ"; which
። መላከ:
5 9, #8 prefix H.
oY

mu omit. #8 read HH]:
15 2 but in the ungrammatical
mu read ©. All other MSS. omit.
7 9 reads መስርታ:

# መመገርት፣
"። ° reads ጳንH፡
" ¢ reads NN:
mgpu read AN 8» AA; » AIH:
=rm8.
u RAH

5 F only.

=

8 add BE.

5 an.

» reads thei
=F.
9 prefixes ©. / reads RAH
Bu read A&ቁራh

LAP;

5 m (eu) read 323; 9 omits.
7 mu. Fr m3; 9 OY
Dcde/Fnox ay
ማዕምቅኝ ።58 መዓምቅት፤
= 9 omits next four words through ht.
» 2 omits.
0 7 reads EቁéiሆPs
c omits HRP;
2 9 reads ደት DAA;
5 9 omits
next two words through hmt.
5 መ eas ስብሐትመ፡፥ ።# ሰሕተትሙ፡
i
መ/u

ሂሩad

ዚትችጐስቅ።

ያ ጺይሃጐለሰቅ።

8 ጽድነ'ጌቴሰቅ።

5 9 reads

በውል

5 & (m originally?) 9. m (Over an erasure) Zs, 8 read #YJAብRS
7 £ reads pRወ.E#;
5 9 reads ሲምስቅ፡ በገበ፡
” ያ read ሰብእ
" 9 reads aርEi
# a0. 9 reads
oki FB Ei
= 50 all M55. See Dillmann's Grammar, § 48.
3 g reads
ዶበውዙ፡ በሳባዕሴሆሙ፡
4 9, 5 ሮኒ ዴሀውዎመሙ፥
4» የሐውኮመ፡፥
። የሐስውዎመሙ፡

'4 የሕውስዎመሪ

“ «-7. 9, 8 ead ጸመናብርቲሆሙ

/። ኣምናብርቲሆመሙ፡ (si).

TRE DERE

መጽሐፈ፡

ሄና ነ;

101

ወዴወፀዙ፡፡ ከመ፡ ጸናብስት፡ ኣምስካባቲሆሙ፡፡
ወከመ ጸዝጻብት፡ ር'ቷባን፡ ማሓጻክሰ፤ መርዒት፡ ዚጸሆሙ።፡
6. ወ።ዩዓርፃዋ፡፡
ወችክውን፡

ወ ይከይድዋ፡፡

ም.ድረ፡

7. ወሀገረ;

ሲምራድረ፡፡

ሣፉሇ፤ኔ› ዚጸሆሁ፡፣

ሣፉያክ

ዚጸሆሁ፡፡

በ“ቅፎጃሆሙ፡’

ዚጸዩ፡

ይከውን፡

ማዕዋቀፈ፡።

ጻ.ድቃ፤

ምከያደ፤

ወ"ጸሰረ፡

ሲ“ጸፍራሲሆመ፡ "

ወ.ያiሠመል በበ; በይናቲሆመ፡ ቁትሲ፡።
ወች'ጸን0፡ የማኖመ፡። ዴቤሆመ፡
ወጺያጸምሮ፡" ብጻሲ፡;” ሰጻኙቶሆ፡
ወጺወልድፎ፡ “ሰጸቡሁ፡ ወ“ ሰጻሙ፡
ኣስከ፡። ይከውን፡። ልቁ ጸብድንቫ፡” ተጻሞተመሙ፡።
ወመቅሰፍተመ፡። ጴትኩን፡። በከ።
5. በጻጸማንቱ፡።” መዋዕል፡ ትፈትሕ፡ ሲዶል፡” ጸፉሃ፡
ወይሰጠመሙ፡። ውስቴታ
ወኝገቱሎመ፡
ሲጸል፡።

ትኘገፎፃ፡።

ይውሕጦመሙ፡።

ሲ"ኃጋጥጻኘ፡

ጳም።ቅ.ፎመ፡”

ገጸ፤ ሣፉሇን።

1 7 reads RX
22m, te.
reads YC
as well as the form in the text, may be for OCP:

837: ። OCI; which,
8 reads DOC; (or £3"). If u

is right it = dvarrilovry airilv, which the Ethiopic translator should have rendered
here by EET;
2 # rads ይከ.ፎ ንዋ፣ 5-0 ዴክይ.ፎዎ፤ 8 ይከይደድዎመሙመ።
‘Im

read ሲምር
° e omits next four Words through hmt.
2a tt. Ja, fre
read LAV
u/8.a-u read EC: Hence itis possible that 4H HAW; may
be a gloss.
s fc (2) % read LAPS
° 9,0, readpEgyi 9 omits.
0» 9 omits.
u fu, 8, mg omit.
5 9 reads AJé:
5 Fu. my, 8 read 0p:
9 መዋ
“#9read A.
"9adds ORR
Eu. my, f8 read 0.
9, a/v)
trans. before i
° 9 reads Rts
»gFIu, a0ce mh FBR I0XaD read
ወጺሂRምC:i
። AA;
g omits this and the two following words.
0 a8 preበx ወ.
5-4 add ሲካልጹ፤ ©.
19, FB
mhu omit. x omits DAAaw;

= 9 reads AN;
25 /። reads ክውን;
Au. m/l8 read HAE: 9 Aቁ
5 Z/u,B. 9 omits. m RB.
5 Iu, 8. m ATs
# omits. Text = x
Bavdrou air@w = Bria) corrupt for niani3 or i321.
7 reads Ay.
Zy omit.
ያ adds ጸብ.ድፎ ንት
5a
ሃreads RYhውንi ያ ወጺትኩr: 5 ወ(/,a omit) Rድhውy
5 9,8 prefix @.
» 9,18 trans. after AY; o a read AAA:
x 2 reads pwn;
d omits this and four following words.

5 ድ.

ሣ# ትኝኘኮሲል፡

EE

7, 8 omit

# reads YE;

that am, #2 prefix ©). £ reads ውሣ:
Sa, @aeFhRInoay.
bedgxy omit,

9 reads RYZE:

9 ዴትዋYm

Dre. 0

SE

5 YoY

Tv!
Fa (Saye

wu omits.

105

መጽሐፈ፡

LVII.

hy’

ኣምድሣረዝ፡

ወርኩ

ህዛኛኻ፡

ካእኣተ፡፡

TNT NTR

ችትፀይንት፤

ሠረገሳኝ፡፡

ውጻንዘ፡

ዴጴዐኒ፡፡

ሰብኣኳ፡ ውስቱተሙ፡፣ ወ።ይመጽዙ፡፡ ዲፉበ፡› ነፍሳት" ጳምስራቅ፤ ወኣምዕራብ፡። ኣስከ፡
መገንፈቁ፡ ዕሰች'።
2. ወ።“ትሰምፀ፡። ቃሰ;። ድምፀ፤ ሰረገሳቲሆመ፡ ወስበ፡ ኮዞ ዝህሀውሕ፡”"
ቅዲሰን፡'፡ ኣምሰማድዴ፡ ጸኣመፉ፡፥ ወዐምደ፡ ም.ፎር፡ ተሐውበሰ፡" ኣጸመንበፉ፡። ወ“ተሰምዓ፤።
ሓምጸጽናፈ፡ ሰማድ፡” “ጻስክ፤ ጸጽናፍ፡። በጸሕቲ፣ ዕሰት።
3. ወ።ፎወ.ፎቁ፡። ዙሎመ።
ወ“ ደሰንዲ።

ሰጻግዚጸ፡

መንፈሰገ፡።

ወ“ዝንቱ፡።

ውኣቱ፡።

ትፍጻች፡።

ካልኳ፡።

ምሰሴ።።

LVIII. ወጽYH aበል፡ “ልሰ; ምሳሲሌ፤ በጻንት፤ ጻ.ድቃንጌ፤ ወ*በኣንት፡” ሣኃፉያን።
2. ብፁዓን፡ ጸገንትመሙ ጻ.ፎቃን፤ ወግፉያ ን”
ሓጻስመ፤ ስቡሕ፡። ክፍልክሙ።
3. ወዴከውኒ፤
ወ።ሐፉያን፤

ፎቃ;
በብርሃኔ

“በብርሃ፤
ሕዴድዴወኝ

ፀሐዶዴ፡
ዘሰዓሰም፡

ወማሣግለቸኘ፡። ጸልቦቱ፡። መዋዕለ: ሕይወተሙመ፡
ወ“ቅዱዷሰን፡ ጐልቈ፡። መዋዕል፡” ጸልቦሙ።
4. ወዩየጋሥምመዎ;“ ሰብርሃን፤

ወ“ ይረክቡ

ጽፎፃ፡"

በኘበ;“። ጻንግዚጸ፡ መኘንፈሳገ፡።

ሰባም፡። ሰጻ.ድቃን፡ በስመ፡። ኣገግዚጾ፡ ዓሰም።*
5. ወጻም.ድሣረዝ፤ ይትበሀል ሰቐዱሳን፡" በሰማይ፡፣

1 9 trans. after AE.

read ARI

ag

«gu, abcgiInox,.

5 m reads PRY;

0 REI

aeBk.

gw bcdFInoxap

omit.

#m, eFhkiyay read ሰረገላ:

mn. £7)

read ውስE7i

a. 78

a. 7r8 omit.

#ውhስEE;

7° (over erasure)

8B £ቤሆa
‘St8. mu read ያጽጽi 9 PORN
5 = Heb. 3 which may be
a corruption of 3 = ‘like
» a (2 by slip reads H&EሰYi). 8 reads H4hስi
= 9 reads
ወኣስክ፣ ም0ራብ፤
= ሪ-miu,
8. mpu omit.
5 bcx omit.
1# y prefixes H.

5? g, pb read Whi

5 o omits. 9 prefixes ©.

m reads ትYሐወስi

m reads

Aamiበési
»a-u FBRInoxak. w, abcde read NO:
” a. 8 reads EEC:
ag.
9 omits. B reads Aስhi Hci ሰይ;
5 7 reads DE:
5 g reads

ሰ155
=m. Other MSS. ፍስት:
TፍaZE
” 2 reads AR; # AnAA:
% g omits through hmt.

5 fr reads HWS; but /” agrees with text.

በብርሃኒ፡ ፀሕደ፡ ወይክውን፡ ሲ.
5 am.

m reads NA.

#0.

Bn. ሰመዋO0Ai

here as frequently they write it AE;
Om

FBRInoX aD.

” reads UH.
ua omits.
7 0 u read
” £ omits next eight words.
wad omit.
Other MSS. ወሣAYY
። በመዋ".

reads ይRት»Jሠp:;

1 9 eaባs ወዴረካብያዎ፡ ጽ.ድቅ፣

5a.

8 DA.

mf, 8B read Hh;

ወዴረኻብዎ፤

5 2 reads

5 g reads AAO:
5 Fg,

though

5 F reads መዋOA

9 pti p; (sic), #. abc ge Dy;
“ / ads ጸምኝበ፡

4 a-im, m, #8 read 0305
5 ይ reads መeEስi 0 መናፍስ; ለፃሲም;
05 omit only A.
7 9, B trans. after Rw; against ag.

“ / ads መሙ

0 c omits,

መጽሐፈ:

LVI. SLX, 2.

108

ዛህኛኻ፡

ከመ፡ ይሣግሥሠ፡፣ ሣቡጻ1፡ ጽ.ፎቅ፣ ክፍሰ፡ ሃይማኖት
ኣስመ: ሠረ; ከመ ፀሐድ፡ ደበ; “tብበስ፡
ወ““ጽእመት፡፡ ግሰፈት'።፣
6. ወብርሃን;

ዘጺ“ዴትኋለቅ፣

ይከውን

ወበጐልቁ፡ መዋዕል ዚዴዶበውዙ፡
ኣስመ፡’ ቀዳሚ" ፕሐሕቱለኝ፡። ጽልመት
ወበርሃን፡

ት'ፀንዕ፡።

በቅ.ፎመ፡።

ኣግዚጸ፡

መኘንፈሳቫ፡"

ወብርሃ፤ ርትዕ፡ ዥፀንዕ፡ ሲንሰም፡ በቅ.ድመ፤ ጳጻገዚጸ፤፡ መንፈሳት።"
LIX. በጻማንቱ;። መዋዕል ርኣያ፡ ጸዘዕዶንትዩ፡ ሣቡጻጓ፡ መባርቅት ወ'"ብርሃናኝ፡" ወቫነኔሆሙ፡
ወዴደበርቁ፡። ሰበረክት፡ ወለመርገም፡ በከመ፤ ፈቁይ፤ ጳፃግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት።
2. ወበህዩ፤ ርኩ
“ሣቡጻት፡ ነኮ.ፎዃ.ሮፎ፡" ወ“ለበ፡ ድዶደቅቅ፡”። በ“መልዕልተ፡ ሰማይዴ፡፤ ወ“ቃሎመ፡፥ ዶሰማዕ፡
ተወመጋ.ፎርች።

ሰረ፤ም።

ናብስ፡ ጸስተርጸዩኒ፡። |ወቃል፡ ዘነኮ.ፎኝ.ፎ፡|= ሴሰላም፣

በ።ቃሰ;።” ኣፃዚጸ፣፡ መገንፈሳት።"

ዳቡጻቲሆመ፡።

ለብርሃናት፡

ወለመባርቅት፡

3. ወ ጸም,ፎሣረሽ፡
ወ።ሰበረከኝ፥

ወሰጽጋብ፣

ወሰበረክት፣ ወጸመ፡።

ትችርሓጳዩ፡ ሲኝ፡ ዙሲ፡

ዶበርቁ፡።

[ X. በዓመት” ጀምልኣት፡ በወርሣ፡። ሰብዕ። “ጸዘመ፡ ዐበውፉ፡። ወረቡዑ፡ ሰ“ወርሣ፡ በሕይወች
ሄኖሕኻ፡” በ"ውኣቲቱ፡ ጸምሰል፡ ርኩ ከመ፤ ታድሰቁቀልቅ፡” “ሰማዩ ሰማያት“ “ፎልቅልቅሕ፡
ዐቢደ፡;። ወኘገዴሰ፡ ሰልዑል፡ ወመላሳኳኳቫ፥ ጸጻሰፈ፡። ጸጻሰፍ፡”" ወገጻልፊተ፡" ትጻልፊት።
ተሀውኩ፡ “ሁከት 0ቢዩ።።
2. ወ“ርኋሰ፡ መዋዕል፤፡ ጁበ፤ መንበሪረ፣ ስብሐቲሆ፥ ይነብር፡”

1 See note 47, D. ros.
2 reads VEY;
? m, 5 omit. % omits wep: ho;
+ dq reads ብ;
2 ድ reads ጽAመY፡
5 a. 8 reads JA
7 08. Fmgw read
HA
Bex omit.
? 8 reads Aስhi.
1" 9 prefixes H and trans. this word
and Yh" after RN.
um. Other M55. YA
5 ag. 9, #8 read AY);
1) ዕ% read በ30
7 a, e0,

um.

Other MSS. መS&ENስትi

B~e5 ብርሃና;

0 % omits,

15 B omits.

1 m reads £170;

m, B~n DYE

9,

for xperiipta 2).

ia,

/ EYE:

OYE

* /°8 prefix @.

9g omits initial ©.

= u omits.

F8 prefix ©.

ግ a,e.

52.

/u ወመጋ.ፎራጊ፡

Text = oixiiuara corrupt for kpikara (or oiknrilpta

CeFhRny.

abpdgonxab

5 AI] MSS. but # add this gloss.
#0) read 0.
= w reads 0, and § has H.
ኃa-ያ, 8. ያዋድመ

au omits.
5 9 reads AALU
ሣ 9 reads H£በCY:
5 mመ/,8.

1 9 omits.

5 bx read YrE3E:

5 au.
ፀ። ለዓመት፣

Be AO;

RNYCAtL:

«# AስትርAL: (sic).

Ja-uFf BF DAA; wu omits.
mM # omits.
1 mg read iN;

wB omit.
ድ ሰዓጎሰም፡

X omits preceding word.
5 Fmg read በDC'H:

5 e adds mC;

5 This name was

probably inserted here in place of Noah by the editor of the entire work in the Hebrew.

n mn, bX read መበ, 5» reads A.

* 7 reads ድAቁAY:

= 7 reads ሰማና:

Sሪaፉ

4 fu, Bho.

read

5 8 ድልቅልቁ፡

ዐቢዩ;

Sag, mn. 9,8 read AAALYI
B trans. against a.

5 m omits.

“ y omits.

mg

1 m reads AAA

8 adds Ay; CAS

mn g reads Hei and inserts it before £0;

RAE:

/ሰE;

chs

omit.

Ieyp/xas RAY:

7 inserts this phrase before ©.

104

መጽሐፈ:

ወመላኣሕት፡

ዛሄዛኛኻ፡

LX. 2-6.

ወጻ.ደቃን፤ ጸውፉ፡፡ ይቁውመሙ።

3. ወሲት፤ ረ3ፎ፤ ዐቢዶደ፤ ነሥጸ፤ኒ፡"
ወፍርሃት፡ ጸሐዘ፤’
ወሐቁዩ፡ *ትቁጽበ፡
ወተፈትሐ፡፡

ሹልእያት'ዩ፡፡

ወወ.ደቁ፡ በገጽ፣።
4. ወፈነወ ሚኻካዜል፡ ካልጸ፡። መልጸከ፡" ኣም’""ቐዲዷሰን፡ ወጸንመይኒ፡ “ወሶለበ፡ ጸንሥጸኒ፡
መንፈስዩ፡። ገብጸትነ፡። ኣጻስመ፤ ጺካህልኩ፡ ትዓፃ7ዎ፡'፡ ራኣዩ፡" ዝኩ፡ ጋይል፡ ወኪያሆ፥ ሀውካ፡"፡
ወጸንቀልቁሰ፡። ሰማዴ።=
5. ወዴቤሰኒ፡" ሚካሌል፡ ምንት፡” ርኣዩ” ክክከመዝ፡ ተሀውከ፡።
ኣስከ፡ የም፡ ሀለወ ዕሰተ፡ ምሕረቱ” ወሀሱ፡ መሓሪ፡ ወርኘኙፃቅ፡ መዓት "ላዕሰ፡ ጻሰሲ፡።
የጋ.ፎፉ፡ ዷበ፡ የብስ።

6. ወሶለበ፣ ትመጽል፡።

“0ሲጎ፣

ወኝዴል፤

ወመቅሠፍገ፡።

ወቫነኔ፡

ኣንት፡ ጸስተዳለወ፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳ ሰጻሰ፡ ጺዴይሰፃጁ፡። ሰሹነኔ፡ ጽፎቅ፣ ወሰጻሰ፡ “ይካሕዱ፡
ሰሸነኔ፡ ጽድቅ፡።” ወለጻሰ፡ ይነሥጹዙ፡” ስሞ” በከ፡ ወ።ተዶደለወት፣ ድኳጻቲ፡ ዕሰ” ሰሕፉያኝ፡
መሕሳ;።

ወ።ሰጋጥጻነ፡

ሕት” . . . .

1 » trans. after Ami
። £ reads ይiመNL: For ረ3#; . . . EርCYY; 9 reads
መጸኒ ረ" ወዓቢይ፤ ፍር" ነመ ክኒ ወ.
S298: mru omit.
4 fu, 8. mg omit,
but wrongly.
Ct. Nahum ii. roi; Jer. xxxvii. 6 (LXX).
5 All MSS. save #, gy
add ©. This wrong insertion led to the addition of the gloss ተመስ; in 8 in order
to furnish WAY: with a verb.
+ mg (save that m omits $Y FnX. FI BInX
read WAYS:
5 wrongly adds Toho; (which Xx a trans. before WA) and Z ድቁ;

፣

reas ወትፈነወ፤

5 7 reads ARH:

» ወፈነዎ፤

ዞረ ጻባ ሲት ቐዱስ፤ 8-9 ረ + aባd ቅዲዱስ፡

and together with 8-5 adds pዲN; 5.

sg, w omit.

10 8a £0y add መላ

against a, qaf0y.
n F8-e. For AY e reads YAW;
a omits through hmt.
5 a= (save that w# prefixes ©), 8. 9 reads HR and trans. after 'IAብAY:
5 9 prefixes @,

and reads DIARY"; YENስt; Fyn trans. before መን&NE;
4 m reads 3S (sic).
vay. fh, age /h8Inoyab read AEA; FPDepowx ACA
0 0 reads lh:
፣ 0.

ደ 8 ጽንኾልቅሉ፡

BSI

0B AIT YY:

SF,

BInx.

15 7u read Nyt;

1.

Zu Fp YVወhi

uA

» 8B adds ቁዲስ፡

m0,

AE:

0 amg.

mi

7 (over erasure) CAN:

[hese two equivalent forms are contractions

for

ትሀውሕከ፡ and TUወhh:i m reads YUH:
/aicgesoyas ትው:
= mn adds
ሰኣገዚጸብሔር፡
= ። reads ሲጻለ፡
=” 4g read መጽጸ፡
u reads 0AትY፣ መ0ፀኝ፡
7 2m. Other MSS. መፍ &:Nስት;
= So w only. All other MSS. omit negative.
In my edition in 1893 TL restored this neoative on various grounds when as yet
a Was unknown, Cf. 4 Ezra vil. 37.
5 g reads nሐ.EP; #, fe omit together with

AAA; through hmt. For A before Wy; 2 reads 0.
1 0, Bw read Noi
= m omits.
au omits.
before መሐላ:

» m reads Yh4;

። TYሐYi

may, D0. Zu, 8-0 iA
reads FAA;
5 9, 0B trans.

Here ver. 25 should follow immediately.

መጽሐፈፉ፡

LX, =i.

7. ወትኳፈሱ፡፡

“በዴኣኳቲ፡

ዕለት

ዐናብርት፡፡

ዐንበሪ፤

ሴዋያታን፡

ከመ፤ ትሣድር፡

ካእሌቱ፡

ጸንስትያዊት፡፡

ዘስማ፡

በ፡ልጕኮ፡

በበፎው፡"

ዘx“ያስተርዉ፡

ወጻድቃን፡'፡

ወስሙመ፡

በንበ፡፡

ዘገብረ፡።

ኣንዚጸ፡

Et

conservasti

hence read

mol unam parfem gwae Sscca/a (Enoch
1X. 7, 9) est tertio die, ut smfhagsfey (1x. 8) in

ተመጠወ፡

ea ubi sunt montes mille: 852. Jeyia/ihan
autem dedisfi sehfimam Bariem fumidam
(Enoch 1x. 8, 9): et servasti ea ut fan/ im

ኣምሄው፤ዩ፡፡ ሰብዕ፡ ኣምጸዳም፡ ቁዳሚሆመሙ፡
ሰሰብጻ፤

tunc

corrupt for nA:

Creasti) duo animalia, Homien uni vocasfr
Pehemoth et nomen secundt vocasis Leviafhan (Enoch 1x. 7, 8). Bo. FY separas#
ea ab alteruiro (Enoch 1x. 9) non enim
poterat septima pars ubi erat aqua conBregata capere ea.
51. Et degss/i Behe-

በሕር

ዲታዳይዴን፡፡ በምሥራቁ፡ ዝት በኘበ፡ ዴነብፉ፡።
“ሣፉያን፤፣

105

4 Ezra vi, 49.

(= ግን

መልዕልት፡ ጸንቅዕተ፡ ማያት።
8. ወለት
ባዕታፓይ፡ ስሙ ብሔሞት፡፡ ዘድጻሣሽ፡፡ በኣን7
ድንሆ፡

ሄኛኻ፡

መንፈሳት ። ።

devorafionem (Enoch 1X. 24) quibus vis et
quando vis. Apocalypse of Baruch xxix. 4
“ከመ ያርጳዩኒ፡” ግይሎሙ፤ ለኣልኩ፡።
‘And Befiemoih will be revealed from his
place, and Z.evsatian will ascend from fhe
ዐናብርት'፡ ሓጻፎ፣ ተሴሰዩ፡ በጸሐቲ፡ ዕለት
Sea, fhose fwo grea monsters (Enoch 1x.
ወትወ.ድዩ፣ ክበልኾኮተ፣ ባሕር፡፤ ወጀ“በዩብሰ፡።
7, 8) which 1 created on the fifth day of
በቢፎው።
creation and 1 kept them until that time;
and then they zesif be For Foodg for all that
are left (Enoch 1x. 24).
10. ወድቤሲ፤ኒ፡። ጸንተ፥። ወልደ፡ ሰብልኳ፡ በዝየ; ትፈቅድ ታኳምር፡ ዘሣቡኣ።
11. ወዴቤሲኒ።

9. ወችትስጻልኻዎ፣

ሰ“ ካልጻ፤

መልጸሕ፣።

1 mm, The usual form with this meaning i5 Th" but see end of this note and p. o6,
note I3. This MS. alone is right. The separation of the two monsters here referred
to is not to take place on the day of judgement, as am, 8 represent, but is already
an event in the past as ver. 9 implies.

See also 4 Ezra Yi, 49-52 which is dependent on

Our text or on & Source of it, a~m, beB8nx a read ወይትhፈሱi acd/708 pዴትnፈሱ፡
2 These words have no reference to the day of judgement mentioned in ver. 8.

s doy read ASብNY; # adds 00RYi
‘Sg. mac
IRI»0X,aS NዋY,

ውስት

7 ሠ read ወሲተባዕት

0 m, 5 read በድ;

wepreadlH.

ዴንዳይን፡

። ዴዳድንኽ፤

ያ ድዴገዳዴኽ

5 bcvread OበJ0i

* a-/።, geB8Inuy,. Fu aco xa BYNtያዊH፡
9፤ ዊያን ። ሴውታ ን፡ 4» ሴዋን፣
፣ 9 reads
፣ m9, 8. Z፤u በሌሞኝ፡
? » aባd5 ምድሪ
=“£. /&YዳY: ።# AEA): mac
nok

5» ዴይደኝጌ፡ (?).

5 reads Aምሔውhi

5 mf omit.

9, 5~wadd Hውaki

# FB trans.
"

reads HI0cE:

5m. Other MSS. SEN;
nag, n. go FabceFsIxya Ahi g55 AN:
os AYE
» n trans. before AA
= 9 reads HACAtL:
= a-gux. 9g Ah

። ሲጸመሙንቱ፡

5-x ሰኣልቲ

= ¥ omits.

5 m reads 0:

5 9 reads 30: የብሰ;
7 wu, e omit,
1

= 5, B.

# B omits ver. 10,
ድያ/u ወይቤሉ

106

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

TE ES

መልጸካ፡ ካልኣ ዘምስሴዩ፡ የሐውር ወዘበሣቡጻኳ፡፡ ያርኣጳዩኒ፡፡ “ቁዳ፡ ወደጋሬ፡፣ በሰማይ
“*በውስት፣ ሳዕሱ፡፡ ወበታፓሕት። የብስ፡ በመንምቅ። ወበ’ጸጽናፈ፡ ሰማድዶ፤ “ወበመሠረት፡
ሰማይድ፡"
12. ወ“መዛፃብት፤ መንፈሰት፡። ወኣጻፎ፡ ዴትኻፈቡሱ፡። መንፈሳት ። ወኳር፡
ዴደሱ፡ ወ“ዴይኔእፉ፡። ጸናቅፀ፡። መንፈሳት” በ"በኘይለ፡ መንፈስ፡ ወጋይሎሙ፣።

ሰሲብርሃ፤።
ወሸ፡።

ወርሣ፤
ክፍል፤

ወ(በነክከመ፤

ዘዴትክፈል፡”

በመብረቅ”

14.

ቦቱ፡

ጳስመ፡

ወጺዴትሴሰዩ፡።

።የሕውፉ፡

ቃሎ፡

ከመ፤

ድዶብርቅ፡።

ሰሣኮ.ድዃድ፡
ጸነኮፎኝ.ድፎ፡

ወካፍሳተ፡።

ከመ፡

በ“።ትዕፇሥት፡

ለቃለ;

ወ”ጺ“ኳም።፱፤

15.

ሶበ፣፡

ኣስመ፡

በሂዜሃ፡።

ስሞሙ”
ካፍል፡

ዴይስምዑ።።

ዚጸሆ፡

ተውህበ፡
ክልሌሆሙ፡

መብረቅ፤

ነኮድኝዃድ፣

ይክፍል፡።

ማጻክከሎሙ፡

ወB*B”AኔP,

በA3ምi"

ወ“0ፉዩ፡

ው:

ፍጠ

በ“"“መንፈስ፡“

ዴበርቅ፡።

ዐርፍ፡።

Hai

በበ፡

ወሲ“

ወ።ትዕይንተመ፡

ምዕራፉት፡።

ht”

ክከዋኳክብት፣

በ“ሙዳቃቲሆመሙመ፡፥

ወጸ“መብረቅ፣

ወ“መገንፈስ፡“

“OHI:

ጽፎቅ፡

13. ወነኮፎኝደ፡

ወጺዴትሌሰዩ።።

ይሁብ፡

Aaስመi

Jዴሰ፡

ዴችትክፈል።።

2 mat, B trans. before መAAR:
2 ac Bn X trans. fhውር; before ምPhስtbt
2 g,g-n0ab. mg,n0ap read PHAN; / HSA: over an erasure. « reads H.
‘+ m reads RACAL:
n trans. CAL; after HS;
' ያ. / ቅዳሚ፡ ወደጋሪ፡
m9, 8 HS;

HE;

u omits.

ያመ. 9/።, 8ወበውስት፣
ውስት

10 # omits.

5 m prefixes ©. 9, nu read በላ0t;

“ደ. ።/ 8 በማዕ ምቅ
For ሰ;

ያ በመዓምቅት፥

ex read PEC:

# HAO:

። ወማዕምቅ፣፤

፡ 9 44s

n AI MSS. but £, # read ወበ.

5 ama.
mu, 8B ፉሰት
5m, agb.
5 ያይ B-nxa. መዛ ይዬይሲዉ፡ ያ። ድደ

gu, B-ag8 ትፈ
# w omits.
ኋሪ ድዴደሰዉ፡
5 Before © £m insert
a dittography from the preceding words AE: Yn; መንፈሰ; against 9/n, 8.
98 add Aፎ after ©.

clause.

7s. Here the 3rd sing. is supported by At; in the preceding

mf aef8iy read ትቕ:

ዶገጐሰቁ

s mended

» Fu. mg read መg&Nት'i
= hu omit A before ACY};

= ድ reads Nye;

9, Snoas

with Flemming

from

ትቕ
RIOT;

(7 ት)
of a.

wbegx

8 reads

ROY;

#, 8 Diፉሰት
5 mm, B omit.
1 Bn reads JN;
at’ read AACYSY:
= m reads ፍሳት H.

0 ዴትኻፈል፡

“ ዴትክፈሲ፡

#9 ትhፍልእi (perhaps original). m YYhፈAi / YhፍAi #y omit.
five words through hmt.
7 mgfu, qFhSInoy. # reads ቢ.

a omits next
a9cex 00.

5 w reads ©.

5 ZF reads DN;
9 omits.

5 abeሃhsIw

» bcgloxy,ag trans. after ACY: against a, ae/Bs8n.

a Im, B-pP. Z9,p read በርቅ: /# ብቅ:
= nm omits.
SFmiu, apcgixa.
g reads ይሰማ); ge/2sn08 Aሰም0; adds ANA:
= an aii0y. mca
P0ራ#Y;

nm inserts © before 0".

7 m reads Dጺትሌሲዩ፣
word.

5 Fmg.

= m reads HN.

9 ወጺይዴትሴለሲድ፡
fu B omit.

a wu, bent read መንፈ;

uw omits

* m, 8-0.

ain, nos 020A

5 dg reads DA

and ¢ omits the whole

RAE:

omits.

5 mn reads PwmርCY;

a

# reads 0B:

5 9 prefixes ©.

a omits.

4. g,BI$OCE; mgt abcde 3C8 FigSno0ox,ay SCE:
* u adds መንፈስ:
5 mu reads HI;
በያ LP
7 g reads 0. wu omits.
5 nb prefix ©,
» m omits, 9, 8 add በZዜy (or Yi
°° 5 adds ምሁ:
8 add PN; ሁብ;

LX. 521.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

107

ዴትጸጋዘዙ። ወይትመየጡ፡፡ በገዴሰ፡ መንፈስ፣፡ ወዴቫኘገዳጻ፡፡ ከመዝ፡ በ“ከመ፡። ብዙሣ፡።
ጸድዋለ፣ ምድር።
16. ወመንፈሰ፣ ባበሕር፡፣ ትባዕታዶዴ፣ ውኳቱ፡ ወፀኒዕ፡ ወበከመ
ጋይሰ፡ ጽንዐታ፡ በልኝዃም፡ ያገብኳ;፡ ወክመዝ፡
ትጓገዳኣ፡ ወትዘራኣ፡ በዙሰ፡ ጸፎባረ።
መምድር።
17. ወመንፈበሰ፡ ጸስሐት.ያ፤ መልጸከ፣ ዚጸሆሁ፡ ውኣጻቱ፣ ወመንፈሰ፤ በረድ
መልጸኳኻ፡፡ ፮ር፤፡ ውልጻቲ።
15. ወመንፈሰ፡ ሐሕመዳ፣ ሕዶደገ፡" በኣኘት፡ ጋይሰ፡ ዚጸሆ፡"
ወመንፈሰ; ቦቱ; ባሕቲቱ” ወዘየዐርን፡ ጻምኔሁ፤ ከመ፡ ጢስ፡ ውኣቱ፡ ወስመ ዶደዶደሕኳ።
19. ወመንፈሰ ፲ኝ; “ዚይትጋበር፡ ምስሴሆመሙመ፡"“ ውስት፡ መዛፃብቲሆመ፡ ጸሳ፡። መዝገበ
ቦቱ

በሕቲቱ፡።

ሓጻስመ፡

ምሕቸዋረ፤

ዚጸሆ፥

“ስብሕት

ቦ፡;"። ወ"በብርሃኘን፤

ወበ“"ጽልመችኝ፡

ወ"በክረምት፣ ወበኘጋይ፡ ወ።መዝገበ፡ ዚጸሃ፡ መልጸካ፡። ውኣቱ።
20. ወ።መንፈሰ፤ ጠል
ማግደፉ፤ በ“ጸጽናፈ፡ ሰማይ፣ ወፎፉፃ፡።” ውኣቱ፣ ምስለ፡ መዛግብት፡ ዝናም” ወምሕዋረ
ዚጸሃ፡” በከረም ወ“በ።ሕጋይ፤ ወደመና፤ ዚጸሃ፡። ወደመና፤ ዪጃ፤ ሣቡር፡።” ውኣቱ፡”
ወጸሕዲዷ፡ ሰካልጹ፡” ይሁብ።
21. “ወ“መንፈሱ፡፤ ሰ“ዝናም፡ ሶበ፤ ዶቸጋወስ፡። ኣምነ፤
መዝገበ፡ ዚጸሃ፡። ይመጽጽ፥ መሳባኣኳክገ፥ ወያርሣዉ፡” መዝገበ፡ ወያወጽኳዎ፡ ወሶበ፡ ዴዘራል፡
ዷበ; ሹሰ፡ የብስ፡። ዶትጋበር፡። ምስሰ፡” ማዶ፡" ዘኗበ፡;“ ዩየብስ፡ “ወሶበ፣ ዶቸጋበር፡ በዙ
፲ዜ፡ ምስሰ፡ ማይዴ፤ ዘደበ፡ የብስ። . . . .*

1 g puts in sing.
‘gg. mhFBIInoXa

four words.

2 9 reads ወደዴትወዳAi

5 adds ወትHራN:

AND:

apcgesAWY:

ss omits.

5 ep omit this and next

mofy read PIB:

9a 1A

7850 x5 PIR: (sic)

Siu, abcdi.

7 e reads HoH:

5» no:

° 0 reads RRXS&

s ss omits.

Smt, ga.

ghia

read ARN:
7c omits.
1 e omits.
= m adds hi
9, 8-be5x. a9 በሐቲ
ዕbenvx ለበሕቱቲቱ
'4 9 rads የ3ብር፡ ምስሌሆ፤ » reads ኣምኔሆሙመ፡ for ምስ".
5 i# reads ©.
5 m adds FL; ia reads AE:
Bee reli.
5 a=,
መ ስብሕት ቦቱ፡ 5 በስብሐነ
5 g omits.
0 # reads 0, /reads ©.
= fu read
ወበ.
= 9 trans. together with AE: before HI; Z brackets ARN: and reads
ብርሃ}; in the margin. 8 adopts this gloss into the text and reads ብCYY: Rn:
but for the last word as read Ani

Our text follows a.

5 BcropxB omit.

ny read DA.
4 9 reads A.
5 f reads FAN:
25 mi, fF read ብCYY:
7 F9t mu, HAW;
5 bcx omit.
5 9 reads AA:
0 mu, B omit.
51 # reads AnAAi
=F omit
£,apcdgeitinoxab. mit; ያመiፉ0; A.
/። ነፍሰ ሲ. ያ መንፈሰ፡ ጸ(sic). »ኃ5 ወመገፈበሰ፡;
= መ, e read ይትሕሐወክ፤
። ~=.
mo, B HR:
5 # reads DCE;
ግ ce ad ወሰበ
Rey x, Other MSS.
ዴት. c። add በዙሱ፡ ዪዜ፣
=” 9 reads £0; #, a/hr 8 In 0a add ዙሹሰ፡
» 05 omit.
1g reads H.
a This clause is supported by ag (save that # omits ምስለ:
ማይ; ዘኗበ፡ የብስ), ፀ/5፣፪/#x,e. 9, ac geoyy omit. The apodosis of the sentence
is lost. The protasis is not a dittography. Observe the Hebrew idiom in Af
በዙ

፲ዜ፤ ኮህ-5ጋ5 • ' "=.

For YD"

of

tw, F most MSS. read AY.

108

መጽሐጠፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

EX TNT

22. “ኣስመ፡ ኮኔ፡፡ ማያት፡ “ለኣሰ፡ የሐድፉ። ዷበ፡ የብስ፡ አስመ፡፡ ሲሰያ፡ ለየብስ። ኣምኘበ።
ልዑል፡ ዘበ ሰማዶ፡ ውኣቱ፡ ኣስመ፤ በኣንትዝ፡ መስፈርት ቦቱ; ዝናም፡፡ ወ’መሳኣካት፡
ይትሟጠውዎ።
23. ለጻ" መ“
ርጺኩ፡ ኣስከ፤ ገነተ፣ ጻ.ድቃን።
254. ወዴቤሰሲ፤፡
መልአጸክ፡ ሰባም ዘምስሴዩ፡። ዴሃሱ፡። ኣሱ ክልሌ፡ ዐናብርት፡ ሳዕለ፡ ዕበዶይ፡* ዘኣገዚጸብሔር፡
ድልዋን፤

ዴሴስዩ፤።. . . . ..

[ከመ፤ መቅሠፍቱ

“ሲኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት፡'፡ በከ; ወሻቁት'ል፡። ደቂቁ፡። ምስለ፡ ኣማቲሆሙ፡፤”

ወደቁ” ምስሰ፡ ጸበዩሆሙ።|=
25. ሰበ: ተዓርፍ፤። መቅሠፍቱ ሲኣገዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት፣።
ደቤሆሙ፡። ታበርፍ፡። ከመ፡ ጸችምጻልኳ፡።” መቅሠፍቱ፡
ለኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት” በከ፡

ወትቁትል፡።”
መቅሠፍቱ፣

ደቁቁ፡ ምስለ፡ ኣማቲሆሙመ፡ ወደቂቁ” ምስለ፡ ጸበዩሆመ፡፥ [ሶበ፡ ተዓርፍ፡
ሰኣንዚጸ፡ መንፈሰገ፣ ዲበ ኣኳሰ፡|። „ድሣረ፡ ችክውን፣ ሸነኔ፡ በምሕረቱ፣።

ወበችትዕፃሥቲ።።
XI. ወርጺኩ፡ በኣማንቱ፡። መዋዕል፡ ወ“ትውህበ፡ ለኣጻልክቱ። መሳኣጻክት፡ ጸሕባል፡ ነዋጋን፡።
ወነምጽ፥ ሎሙ” ሕንፈ፡። ወሰረፉ፣ ወሖፉ፤። ለ“መንገሲ፡ መስዕ።
2. ወችስጻልካያዎ፡
' m, B-4oy.
ZFAamihh
AN: hi
omits.
9 Ani
goy5 An
2 9 reads H.
5 # reads @ and omits seven preceding words.
+ m reads AYEh:
5 g reads በ305
‘ot DcgJ0xay.
ash
inpw HA:
?a-ngok mn, BR
መሥፈርት
n

$ at

mgs B prefix A.

reads tt; a trans. after CAS

ምስሴና

2 gdomits.

8 ኣሎን

5 reads የሐውር; and trans. before

2.

The transitive is implied also by 9”

# miu 8. £9 0ቢድ

which reads £ሴሰይP;i

19 /9*. a-/ ኣሱ

omits.

All other MSS. have the passive NE:

The transitive is

right. Cf. Apoc. Bar. xxix. 45 Targ. Jon. on Gen.i. 21. On the intrusion that follows
see note 22.
5 a, 8B reads AAHLRብሔር፡
" cx add ጺይኩን፣ and ¢ ዚጺይምጻኳ፡
after Qh;
15 78. ዘ ወይት'ቃተሱ፡ 8 ወዴትቁተሱ፡
5 m, B read Ei
” 9 reads

ጸጋኣስቲሆመ፡

=» ።- (። ወደቂቅ.

9, 8 ead ወው.ድ፤፡

= The whole passage in

brackets is simply a dittosraphy from Ver. 25, in which, by an oversight, RY PPAR; was

omitted.
Zታ0cፍ;

ag8y read Ai
፡ TOC:

“EF

/FBSInox,ak.

mg read J3CE;

9 omits next five words through hmt.

5 Fm.

#, abcde

Other MSS.

መናፍስት; # omits next seven words through hmt.,
#5 freads &fliati
7 , aycd.
2, read +Y0CE: = ታ0CEi «5 t0C€፤ FiIn0xay Y3ርE
= 9 reads ትመጽA፡
5 £9. m reads as in note 18. Zu, 8 omit together with next eleven words against mg.
nF. mg DEቁY;i
= 1 have bracketed these words as a dittography from the beginning
of the verse.

It is possible, however, that they may form the protasis to the sub-

sequent clause. Before AJHR: 9 adds AJHAብሔC:
5 breads በውAi
#9, omit,
gm, aeFB8Ina.
ፃ ለክልጹ፡

sag.

7 m reads Wai

9,8 Hp

(CDH

sw reads WN:

d omits.

5 9 adds ጳግዚጸ፡ መናፍስት
tu, Bcgroxb read AAA;

which also puts preceding word in acc.)
5 £ reads Wg:

5 a,

B omits.

LXL. 2-5.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛሻ፡

109

ሰመልጸ፡ ሓጻንዘ፡ ኣብሉ ሲምንት፡ ነሥምጹ፡ ኣሎንቱ። ጸሣበሰ። ወሑሖፉ፡ ወዴይቤሰኒ፡፡
ከመ፡ ይመጥኒ።፡
3. ወዴቤሰኒ፡፣ መልጸክ፣ ዘ“ምስሴዩ።፡ የሐውር
ኣሱ፤፥ ጳሙንቲ። ጸምጣ፤" ጻፎቃን
ወማሓጻሰረ፡ ጻድቃን; ያመጽሉ፡ ለጻድቃን"
ከመ፤ ድትመረጕዙ፡። ፉበ፡“ ስመ“ ሲጻፓዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት ሰዓለመ፡ ዓሰም።
4. ዴቐጥኒ፡

ወየሕድፉ፡፡

ሣፉያን፤ ምስለ፤

ፁፉ።

ሣፉያኘ

ወኣኳሱ፡ ጸምጣናት፡ ኣሰ፡ ዴትወሀቡ፡" ሰሃድማኖዥ፡
*"ወያፀን0ኛ፡ ሲ“ጽ.ፎሕ።
5. ወኣኳሱ፡ ጸምጠን፡" ይክከመቲ፡ ሹሉ ሣቡጻተ፡። ለዕመቁ፡። ምድር
ወጻሰ፡ ተጋቡ ኣምበድው፡
ወጻሰ፡ ትበልዑ” ኣምጸራዊት።
ወጻሰሲ;። ትበልዑ ኣምዓሣኝ፡። በሕር
ከመ፡” ዴፃብጽ፥ ወድዴትመረጕዜዙ፡።” በዕለቱ ሣፉዶ፡፣
ኣስመ፡ ጸልቦቲ። ዘዴትጋኮል፡። በ።ቅድመ፡ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት
ወጸልቦ፡ ዘ“ዴድክል፣ ትጋጕሉች።

፡' ain.
Jp»:

9,8 ኣብል

ሀሎ፡ ምስሴሌዩ፡

u omits next word.

። 9 reads ኣጸሙንቱ፡

« m reads RቤLi

following words (Z however places hoi Tr;
5 F reads PC:

mu, d omit.

5 /u, 8.

together with five following

፡ “8 add

after AYE: in the next verse).

reads ወኔ

words.

።,። ኣሱ፡፤፡

97,8 omit together with three
= ይው

5 adgefhaRnvw

trans.

7 tw omits

after fh:

? 9 adds ከመ ድመጥኒ from ver. 3.
) መ reads ጸምጣና፡ ጸበው፡
nm,
abpcdefn. Boas መANé: /10:
us ANei
mg omit.
ah Boab,
hb B-BoasRትመCTH:
9, ycdi0y read 0.
au omits.
"mg read PRE
7 £ reads ድችOU;
15 a. B reads #9105 20
5 2. ድሃ read ምጣ
m, 8 ABምSት's for this word and the preceding w reads ©.
n w reads Ai
ግ 0%.
ዕፀ ዳቡጻኝ፡
= # reads Hoi
» A
5 መ reads Y0A0;

4 fu and Bn save that @-n prefix © and trans. ARራEY:i
2m

support the order of fu though their text is corrupt:

after በሐር

#Z reads

but

AHA;

መ ምክ መዛግብት
9 ois ኣምጸራዊት፣ ወኣሰለ፤ ተበልዑ፡
ወጻምጸራዊት፣ ምድር፡
5 9 omits. 8 omits AA

። ois ኣምጸራዊት፣ a reads
au. FnትበA0; 9,8 omit.

Probably 9,8 are right.

8 trans. and reads YY:

72mg.

/u,8 ምዓ

ባሕር፡ ወጻምጸራዊት፡፡
= g reads pha;
ድትመርጕዚ፡
0 # reads 4X: HA:
adds ሐይወት
5 # reads HዴተሐTሱ
M55, መናፍስት;

5 am, Boag. m8 B0ay read
aa-gu, gu, BB RAO #5 omits,
sg omits.
xm. Other

TXT 60

ዛኛኖኝ፡

መጽሐፈ:

110

6. ወንቻጽ፡' ትኣዛ፡፡ ኣሰ፡፡ በ"መል0ልት፣ ሰማዶ፡? ሹቸሎመሙ፡፣
ወጋኃይሰ፡፣ “ወቃሰ፡ ጀወብርሃነ፡ ፩"ከመ፤ ጻሰት።"
7. ወለውኣቲቱ፡ መቅ.ድመ፤ ቃል፤ ይባርኩ
ወያሴዕሱ፡። ወዴሴብሑ፡። በቢ"ጥበብ፡
ወ“ዴጠብቡ፡ በሣኝገር፡ ወበመንፈበሰ፡ ሕዶወት'።
8. ወጻፓዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት ዷደበ፡ መንበረ ስብሐት" ጸንበሮ፡" ሰ"ሕፉይ፡

ወዴኬንን፡ ዙሉ፡ ፃብሮመ፡

ሰቅዲሰን፡። በመልዕልት፡፥ ሰማዶ፤።

ወበመዳልው፡፥ ደሱ” ምገባሮመሙ።
9. ወሰበ ያሴዕል፡ ገጾ፡ ከመ፡ ይኩንን፣
ሲለጻንዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት
*ወጸሰረ፣ ዚጸሆመ፡።

በፍኖት፡

ወ።ይችሪገፉ፡

በሄቃል፡

ሹቸሎመ፡፥

ቫገኔ፡ ጽድቅ፡

ፍኖተመ“”
ዘ“ኣግዚጸ፡

ኣንት፤

ሣቡኣ፡።“

በነገረ፤

ስሙ

መንፈሰት፣።”

ወይባርኩ፡ ወዴቤብሑ፡፣ ወያሴዕሲ፡
ወዴደቁድቡሱ፡። ሰ“ስመ“ ለኣፓዚጸ፣ መንፈሳት'።።
10. ወድጴውዕ፡;።

1
omit.

ዙሲ፡።

“ጋ ይሰ፡ ሰማያት፡።“ ወሰ”

ቅዱሳን፡። በመልዕልት፡”

ወጋይሰለ።”

reads DY iA
2 £ reads YAW: “ TAH
2 bd omit,
‘0d
sat bb Bread ሰት
° u omits.
7g. mu JPA u omits. Other

MSS. JPA:

bcnx add 8.

s Fim. 9 reads 2A; RS

/#, 5c 2A; B. c omits.

? Fm. 1, 8 ACY
1» £ omits, but leaves space for the symbol,
Bcvx
add ተውህበ ሎሙ
= a. ።, 58 ይበርኸዎ፡
" «. 58 ወያሴዕልዎ፤
= Sረg/0xyay

read ወደሴብሕዎi
7a,

” 9 reads ሲ

ow. B~ihፅvw ዴጠበቡ፥

5 mt 8. Fgomit.

" 5reads ስብሕቲሆሁ፡

wu trans. © after Aብt:

"ድ reads BYበሮንi

2 Aገበረ፡

0 2 omits.
1 9 reads AA.
= einoy read ሰማYi
= 7, apcgeHBsL
ድ reads ይደእዉ፡ ያ ይዴሰጦ፡ ።, 5 ድደሰው፡ ፣0 ድደእወ፡ ። ይዴልው፥
/ omits.
5 freads KY

#u omits next two words.

“Fmt

0,en 4AብAYi

§-~en SAY;

27 au omits next seven words through hmt.
5 7 reads ሰባ; ጸሰረ፤ LAሁ:
ia.
B ኣገዚጸብሔር፡ እዑዮእ፡
" bረn፡x omit.
aw 8-5 ይዩድሱ፡
=
(70.
m, B 0.
= m reads iፈስi
™ 1f £0: is retained it requires the following
nouns

in the accusative.

But probably it is a wrong rendering of Bore which

should be rendered ACY: (intransitive).
The transitive character of ዴው):
probably led to change of the first Wt; into WN; in the best MSS. and of a like
change of the second Wt; in the inferior MSS. m reads ዴው.
5 Emended
from WN; See preceding note.
5 m reads HA; ለማያት For 5A: ...#ዱሰን:

ፃ ads ቅዲሰን፡ ወዙሱ፤ ጋዴ ሰማያት
nያmu. gh8 RN;
8k &
/ ፀ-a ቅዲሰ
m au, w omits. @B~n read Ho”
። HመልOልYi ሰማ
• ረ reads Yያላ
x ኃይሳት፡ ።»፣ add ሰማሇያት፣ ወሹስ፡ ኘይሰ፡

TAXI. io~13.

RNa

IT:

11

ኣፃገዚጸብሔር፡ ኪፉቤን፡፡ ወሱቡራፊን፡፡ ወጦ’ጸፍኒን፡ ወሹሎመሙ፡፡ መላሳኣኳት፡፡ »ጋይል፡፡ ወ“ዙሎሙ፡፣
መሳኣሕት;። ጸጋኳዝገ፡ ወሣፉድ፡ ወካልልጻ፡ ጋይል፡ ኣለሰ፡ ውስት፡ ናየብስ፡ ወ’ደበ፡ ማይ።

11. በይጻቲ፡ 0ዕሲት፡ ድነሥመዉ፡ “ጸሕደ፡ ቃሲ;። ወዴዶባበርኩ፥ ወደቤብሑ፡። ወያሴዕሲ፡።
በመንፈበሰ፡ ሃዴይማኖች፣ “ወበመንፈሰ፡ ጥበብ“ ወበመንፈሰ፡።” ትዕፃሥመት፥ ወ“በ"“መኘንፈስሰ፡
መሕረት"

ወ“በ"“መንፈበሰ፡

ቫነኔ፤

ወሰሳም፡

ወ“መንፈሰ፡

ኘፉት፡

ወ“ይብሱ፡።”

ሎሙ

በጸሕዲ፡ ቃል፡ ቡፉሕ፡። ወይት'ባረክ፣፡ ስመ“ ሰጻኘዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት ሰ።ፃሲም፡ ወኣጻስክ፡ ሰዓሲም።
12. ዴባርኻዎ፡። ሹሱ፡። ጻሰ፡። ዚይነውመሙ፡ “በመል0ልት፡ ሰማይዴ፡፣
ዶባርኻዖዎ፡ ሹሙ ቅዲሰን፡። ጻሰ፡ ውስተ ሰማይዶ
ወ“ሸሎመሙመ፡፣ ሣፉያኝ፡ ኣሰ፡ የሕድፉ፡ ውስተ ዝሀተ፡። ሕዴዶወት፣”
ወችሱ፡። መንፈሰ ብርሃን; ዘትኻል፡። “ባርከኮት፡ ወሰብ”
ወጸልዕሱሉች፡።

ወቐ.ፎሶተ፡።

ሰስምክ፣

ቡፉሕ፡።

ወዙሱ፡። መጋ፡። [ዘ]ገፈፎፉደ፡ አምኝይል፡። “ትሴብሕ፡
ወችትበርሕ፤። ሰስምክ፡። ሲ“ዓለሰመ፡። ዓሰም።
19. ጳስመ፡ ብዙሣ፤ ምሕረቱ ሰጻፃዚጵ፡" መንፈሰኝ፡"
“ወሰ

ፃብፉ፡።

ወሲ ። ጸምጠጣ፤;።

ክከሠች፡ “ሰጻ.ፎቃን፣፡ ወ’ለሣፉያኝ፡

ወርሑቁ፡

መዓት

ገብረ፤;*

“በስመ

ለኣንዚጸ፣ መንፈሳት

'a-g. 9,8 ኪrቤል፡
“o-2 98 prራፊAi
05 omit
“‘g,ao0b. mu,
abcg/sitixatty;
tN: ey omit.
es omit. u reads መAanትi
« es omit.
n reads JN
'£.
Other MSS. omit.
1 9 reads በዲ; 2A
a adh %n ob read i

my Breadtt:
tN: «omits.
omits.
Inxa.
1» Im, BcuoX. Other MSS. prefix ©. 9 reads DRYIik;
= 8 adds ደሰ
» F omits,
omits,
sla.
Jcevxy®.
15 g omits.
7 9 reads Pek; by omits

together with next word.
Fa-m.m, 30.
Z#,8. Fmgomit.
» creads ድቤ:
1 bcvx add AE:
= m adds Ami
= 9 reads ባረnpi
“ag. 9,8 Rt
5 eh 5 omit together with five next words through hmt.,
a, Bwxy. B-Bwxy read

ቐዱሰr፤ ። ads ኣሰ ጴድገውመሙ፡
7 g reads Yi a TH H.
5 9 reads WN;
ዕዙሎሙ፡
5 ag.
9 HYnAi ። Hዴnል
0 9. «9 በርከ፤ ወሰብ 5 ባርኮተ፡
ወሰብሖተ፡
= ሪ-=. =, 8 ወጸል0ሎች፡
= /።, /B፣R/u0pvwx
ep. ድ reads ወቐ.ድስY
ፃ ወቐቁድለት'፣ መ, ሪ8ረ 9, » ወቁ.ድሶለች፡
5 a. 8 reads ph:
# 9 reads WN;
= amg.

m omits.

9,18 read HDi

9 reads ተሰብሐ፡ ወተባረከ፣

1 have bracketed the H before &ፈ£.

ሀ‹ረትባ" ወትሴ" (5 ወትሰ").

5 / omits.

5 m trans. after 31;

5 wbcxomit.
“ dg adds RጋJAዝYiD.
"fm. Other MSS. መeEፍስትi
“au.
# Df:
The construction is a nominativus pendens. dg omits. # tt: JAC;
Other MSS. Oth; ZAC;
Sau, BORN
u# omits together with next two
words. g። add JAሱ 8 adds JN
4 3 reads በጸምny፡
5 ዕ8. #ያ ፃብሪ

(corrupt for Ae)

m It;

115

መጽሐፈ:

ዛህዛኛካ፡

LXII. 15,

LXII. Pho: HH: AHA: ሰኔት: ወ’0ዚዛን;። ወ'ልዑሳን፡ ወጦ’ሲሰኣሰ፡ “የሕድር
ሰሲምድር፡፡ ወዴይብል፤ ሥቱ
ጸዕደንቲካመ፡ “ወጸንመጵ፡፥ ጸቅርንቲክሙመ፡’ ኣመ፡። ችሕኻሱ፡
ጸጻምርሮቷ፡ ለሕፉድ።
2. ወጸንበሮ፡፡ ኣንዚጸ፡ መንፈሳ" ፈፉበ፡ መንበረ ስብሐቲሆ፡
ወ"መንፈስሰ፡ ጽ.ፎቅ፡ ተካዕወ፤ ፈፉቤሆ፡
ወነገረ; ጸፉሁ፡ ይቀችል፤ ሹሎመሙመ፡። ጋኃጥጻ፤፤።
ወ“ችሎመ፡። በማያ; ኣምገጺ፡፡ ዴትሐሕፐኮሱ።
3. ወይደቁውመሙ፡ “በይኣጻቲ፡ ዕሰት፣ ሹሎመ፡፣ ነገሥት፥ ወ“0ዚዛን፡
“ወልአዑሳን፡ ወ፣ጻሰ፡ ይኣኳግዝኛ፡ ሲምድር፡።
ወድይሬኣድዎ፡ ወያጸምርዎ; ክከመ፡ ድነብር፡ ዷበ፡ መንበረ፡ ስብሐቲሆ፡
ወጽ.ፎቅ፡። ቅድጃሆሁ፡ ይትኬነን፡።
ወነገረ; በሕ፤ ጸልቦ፡። ዘዴትበሀል፡፣ በቐቅድሆሁ፡፣
4. ወደመጽኳኣ፡ ፈዷቤሆመ፥ ሕማም፤ ከመ፤ ብኣሲት ኣንት፡። ውስተ ማሕምም፡።

[ወrtን9: ወሲ.ድ፡።]

ሶበ፡ ውሱዳጃ፡። ድይመጽኣ፤ በጸፈ፡;። ማሕፀን;
ወት0ዐፀብ፡ በ"ወሲድ።
5. ወይጨሬኣዩ፥ መንፈቁሙመ፡። ሰመገንፈቁሙ፡
ወዴይደነኘዷ፡፣ ወያቱሕቱ;

ገጾሙ

ወ" ይጻሣክዞመ፡፥ ሕማም
ሶበ። ይሬኳዩ;። ሰዝኩ፡። ወልደ፡;። ብኳጻሲ፡። ኣንዘ፡። ዴነብር፡ ጃበ፡ መንበረ፡ ስብሐቲሆ።

' 9 reads AIHA: መናEስ1;
2 gu. m9,7*B OA
5 9 reads SH: (sic).
ev add hi ይዴሰብሑ፤
“ a-m, 0b. m, 3-08 read OA.
us omit.
° 9 reads
tሐድi £0; tብስi
7 u omits,
* # reads Ami
* Emended by Dillmann from
ወiበረi
"£. Other MSS. SENT
1 0 omits.
gg. mhBWRN: w omits.
5 miu, B. #9 read TAY

BORO
AIR:

iin BID

at

7 /prefxes@.

nu reads ድርድ;
5 au, # reads RDAY:

4 9

m,n

AYE:
wu omits.

ሹሎ፡

=n omit.

ug. my,

So e save that it prefixes ©. B-e (id om.)
u,bcx omit.

* BcdloXy,ay read ለብስ;

1 a. Bo read ጻድ}; በጽድቅ;
os ወጻ;
u omits. By reads ድች:
vv ትና
ወዴት"

x ሐው
ia omits with rest of verse.
5 F prefixes ©.
4 # trans. ብች;
5 f, dehvw read hyn; wu omits.
25 9 reads DE: ey read AE: # ው;

7 et. m reads ሊE: and 9 DE: but trans. it after FRA: # omits. 8 DNA:
and trans. after LRN; « hE: For LመጽAS
mu read £መጽA:
5 Fg read
በኣፎ፡
=” ያ reads ማሕgy; 9 0S
"ng, 8. tu
» 9 omits.
i

Other MSS. ይeaይዎ
m,B8ብAሲYi

5am,

Su

reads AውAE:
#2 reads by a slip PAE
m reads H.

= m prefixes ©.

LXII. 6~r.

|

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኖኻ፡

119

6. ወዴባርክዎ፤ ወዴቤብሕያዎ፡፡ ወሇያሴዕልያዎ፡ ነገሥት; ወ’ዐዚዛንኘ፡ ወዙሎሙ፡፡
ሲም.ድር፡ ሰዘይመልካ፤ ሹሉ ዘ'ሣቡኣ።

ኣለ፡ “ድኣሕዝዩ፡

7. ጸስመ፤ ኣምቅድመ፡፣ ሣቡጸ፤ ኮኔ። ወልደ፤ ኣዃሰሲ፡ ጳጸመሕያው፡
ወዐቁቦ፡ ልሁል፡ በ“ቐ.ድፎመ፡፡ ኃይሲ፡
ወከሠቷ;፡

ሰሕፉ.ሮን።

8. ወይዘራኣ፡"

ማሕበረ

“ሕፉያን፣

ወቐዲሰን፤"

ወይቁውመሙ፡ በ'ቅ.ፎጃሆ፤ “ሹሎመ፡፥ ሕፉያን፡። በይኣቲ፡ ዕለት።
9. ወይወ.ፎቁ፡። ሸሎመሙመ፡፡ ነገሠት“ ወ“0ዚዛኘ፡፡ ወልሁሳን፡ ወኣለ፡
በቅ.ድሆሁ፡።

ይመልክዋ፡

ሰናየብስ፡።

በገጾመሙ፡።

ወዴይሰኘዲ;። ወዴሴፈዉ። ሰ“ዝኩ፡፥ ወልደ፤ ጻኝዃሰ፡ ጳጻመሕሇያው፡
ወያስተበፉዕዎ፡ ወዴስጻሰ፡። ኘቤሆ፡።” ምወሕረት።
10. ወ“ያቕኾጸመሙ፡።

ውልጻቱ፡።” ጻፃግዚጸ፡ መናፍስት

ከመ፡ ያፍጥኒ፡ ወይባ”

ኣምቐድመ፤

ወ።ገጸመሙ፡”

ይመስልል”

ኃፍረት

ወጽልመኘ።።

ዴቸቹሰክ፡። ገጾሙ

11. ወ“ ይሟጥዎመ፡።

1ገቛ

ሰመሳባኣሕነ። በመቅሠፍት”

1 0,18 trans. before CMP; against a9.
5 au. tu, B omit.
= sé omits.
5 m omits.
ጓምቅጂጃሙመ፡ 9 -። ኣምቅፎም፡ ኳ ። ኣምቅፎመ፤፣

2 219 prefix ©. xX adds PEC:
5 g omits.
‘2. m reads
፣ ድ omits.
፣ mg read ወከwች

and m adds Dhwችi ሲያን; ሰኣሰ፡ ውስች፣ ሞቅሕ፡ ኳሪ ሰሣፉ".
0B omit together with next three words.

ወሲሣፉ.ያን፡ {or ወሣፉ".

with this verse.

i 8 trans.

5 gtrans. wx omit Was

It is hardly possible for ወድቁ:

separated by seven words,
been thrust in.

ወደሴብሑ፡

©.

4 reads

Something seems wrong

and pez

በlRw

to be

[he text looks as though the intervening words had

1 eB omit.

7 ድ reads AAሰ፡ 4g ኣሲ
7 ድሆ
wu omits.

" / reads ወይዜክፉ፡

u,x omit AY:

1 a=,

gn,

a Bu

omit.

I A

OO

5 ድ adds ወድቁ
» መዕ 8. ድ ቅሕፎማቓሆመሙመ።፡
=n a trans. after DNA
5 omits.
1 9 adds

= ነ, 8 read Dድቤፈውp;

5 gu omit.

NMI, ge,

ge

ወዴስጻልዎ
5 Fmt. uw omits. 9, as read Yh; and trans. after ምረ:
B-as read AምJቤሆi and trans. afer ም".
5 a omits.
7 m reads
20 (sic). 9 ይቕኾኮዎያመ፡፥ 9, $-ሩ add ልጻጌከ፤ < adds ኣስክ፤
slip reads AY:
5 9 reads DORK
0 m reads lA;

DEeli
ወጽልመት

wu omits.

1 # reads RAR

5 u, bctox

mn PAAR

read ቄስ:

5
through
and trans. after

5 Fh8BF.

a im reads በlRaw

gn

5 Fmended

by Flemming. # reads “Baws 9°#Tpws m,/e8 RYIhውpm
/ R“Bጥውዎሙ
wu omits together with next two words.
5 Z#, g reads ለመል:
mm, 5 መላክ

“au.

wB omit.

Xa read RAY:

« omits.
0

114
ከመ

መጽሐፈ:
ዴትፈደዩ፣

12. ወድከውኑ፡፣

ኣምኔሆፀሁ፡
ጸርጸያ፡

ህሄኛካ፡

EXT TE TRIES

ዘ'ገፍዕዎመሙመ፡ “ሲደቁቁ፡ ወ'ለሣፉ፤፡

ሰጻድቃን፤

“ወሰሣፉያ፤፡

ዚጸሁ።፡፡

ዚጸሁ፡፣

ቦመ“፡› ይትፌሥሑ’ ኣስመ፤ መዐቲ፡ ሰኣንዚጸ፡ መናፍስ" ፈቤሆመ፡፥ ታፓዓርፍ
ወመጥበኝሣቱ። ጳምደሞመሙመ፡። ትሰኻር።
13. ወጻ.ፎቃን፤ ወሣፉያን። ይ.ፎሣኒ፤ በዴኣቲ፡ ዕሰ
ወገጸጾመ፡ ለጋጥጳጌ፤ ወለዓማቧ.ያን፡። ዚዴሬኣዩ፡። ኣምዴኣዜ።
14. ወ"ጻግዚጸ፡ መናፍስት" ዷቤሆመ፥ የኝ.ድር፡
ወምስሰ፡ ዝኩ፤ ወልደ፤ ጻኝሰ፡ ኣመሕያው፡" ዶበልዑ፡ ወዴሰክቡ፡ ወዴትነሥጵ፡ ሰንሰመ፡ ዓሲም።
15. ወተ ንሥጹ፡። ጻ.ፎቃን፡ ወግፉያን፣ ምድር
ወኘደጊ" አጸትሕተ፡ ገጽ”
*ወሰብሰ፡ ልብሰ; ስብሐት።።
16. ወውልጻቲቱ፡ ይኩን፡። ልአብስካመ፡። ልብሰ፡ ሕዴይወት፡። ኣምኝበ፡ ኣግዚጸ፡ መናፍስት"
ወጸልበሲክሙ፤ኒ፡ ጽድ በልዩ
ወስብሐቲክሙ“ኒ፡። ዚየገልቅ፡ በቅ.ፎመ፡” ኣግዚጸ፡ መናፍስት።
LXIIL በ“ጻማንE፡ መዋዕል፡ ያስተበፉዑ፡ “ንዚዛን፡ ወነገመት'፡” ኣሰ፡ ይዶኣሣዝኛዋ፡ ሰየብስ፡”
ጳመሳጻካነ፡። መቐሠፍቱ፡። በንበ፡ ሀሰዉ፡። ምጥዋኔ። ክከመ፡ የሀቦመ፡ ዕረፍተ፤ ንስቲ፡
ከመ፡።“ ድደቁ፡ ወዴስኘዲ፡። በቅድመ፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መናፍስት፡። ወዶትጸመኒ፡ ኃጢጸተሙ፡
በቅድፎማሆ።

2. ወ“ዴይበርሕዎ፡

1 u omits.
omit.

5s 9 reads AW:

5 greads AA:

from next Verse.

ወድክው
afler LYE.

ወዴቤብሕያዎ፤

# በመጦ0Y; Ff omits.

# iW;

eFBnpx

ሰጻኘግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት"

oy omit.

ወይብሴ፡"

° freads@.
5 u, 0b omit.

«gob

abc add Raw

omit next five words throueh hmt,.

‘ig 0

ead

5 wu omits. Zn add Phውr; RCA: ሰX.E2Y;
SPB
rans:
9 reads Dw;
m prefixes ©.
nu am, 8. m reads mን&ሰY;

'5 9, 8 ad ሲጻጸግፓዚጸ፡ መናፍስት

3 Em, from APs

8 trans. after TNC:

gw omit.
# g reads Oy”. wu omits.
5 greads KART:
፣ B- add የቕ.ፎፉ፤ መ.
5 m reads Yl
15 m reads DEI:

5 2,0 omit.
0 B reads

ገጾ

a ሕሐድዴወተትሙመ፥

a eh

5 ag, (0).

read

Ai

=a,

9, Bn ዴክውን፡

2.

B-#na

read ድመ

BE BBNOOLS

5 fa read NAC:

oy omit.

ET,
I, reads J:
5 070
IY DE OIC
Ec ahr LY
Ma
aéepknvw read Yl™Yi

5 9 reads በቅ.ደ#y;
bcg/siopxy,as YlሥመY

ዐዚዛን፡

= 5 reads ወለመሳኣa፡

።። ዐዚዛን፣

ነገሥመጓ፣

= 9, 4» read ለምድር፡

5 a-Ju, B., /9* read መቅሠፍት:
» m reads TP};

words.

u OE;

and trans. before 030;

¥ aciab read NJ

Other MSS. SEN;

2 5 omits,

= 9 ጻባd5

ጸመሳጻት፡

35 a, B reads Dhani

* m reads miፈሰYi

በኝበ፤

ሀሰዉ፡

s# omits next five

yp omits.

“gmt

LXIIT ef.

መጽሐፈ፡

“ቡፉ፣፡ ውኣቲቱ፡ ኣግዚጾ፡ መንፈሳት
“OATLR

OHH:

ወ“ጻንዚጸ፡። ስብሐ

115

“ወጻንዚጸሙመ፡፥ ለኝሣገሥት።፣

O“a7LR

ሰብዑ

ወ“ጻፓዚጸ፡ ጥበብ።

3. ወዴበርህ፡፡ በዙ
ወበብሐሕቲክ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

ሣቡኳ፡” Jይልከ፡። ለችትውልደ፤ ትውልደ

“ሰዓለሰመ፡ ዓሲም

ዕሙቅ፡ ውኳቲቱ፡ ዙሱ፡። ሣቡጻጓተ፡" ዚጸከ፡ ወጐልቁ፡'፡ ጸልእቦሙ፡፣
ወጽድቁ;።

ዚጸክ፡ ጋሰበ;" ጸልቦ።

4. ይኣዜ፡ ጸጻመር፤፡

ወለ፡

ክከመ፡ “ንሰብሕ፤፡ ወንባርኳ፡”

ዴነፃሥ፤ ዷበ፡ ሹሎሙ

ሲሰ““ልጸግዚጸመ፡

ሲኝገሥት።

ነገሥመት።

5. ወድዴቤሱ፡። መኒ፤ ወሀበ፤።” ዕረፍተ

ከመ፤። “ንሰብሕ፡ ወና”

ወንጻመን፣ ቅፎመ፡፤ ስብሐሕቲክ።”
6. ይኣዜ፤ኒ፡” ንስቲተ፣ ዕረፍት፣ ንትነዴ፤

ወጺንረክብ፡”

ረንሰ.ፎ.ፎ፡። ወጺንጻሣኽዝ፡።
ወ።ብርሃን፡። ኣምቅድህ ግሰፈ፡
ወጽልመት ምገባሪ፤። ሰሲ“ዓለሰመ፤ ዓሰም።

1 mb omit.

w# reads ti

PAE:

2g.

reads Dዴትጸመፉኒ፤ »ጋጢጸተመ“ ወጻግዚጸ፡

mot Bn read DATHR:
5 eB 5 read JAY:

« AHR:

nx መናፍስት;

«8 omits.
s g reads AHA: au omits.
Sem. 9 reads AHR: ባ0A፡
/ ኣግዚዶ፡ ሰሲብዑል፡
። ሓገዚጸ፤ ልእዑሳባን፡ 5-። ኣገዚእ፡ ሰባዕል፡
። ሓፇዚጸ፡ ብዕል
7m omits.

SZmtu,ty

m reads A. #, B omit.

wu reads yf;

mark off this sentence
in # omits.

5-05 prefix.

fu, BX trans. after HAN:

from what precedes.

1 m reads SA]

* e reads ትው

X omits.

5 a=, 0,0

Fm

(7 reads WN).

ትው.

15 » reads 4A:

0

# omits.

10 Im, B~0 read HAs

g omits initial ©.
7 g, pc derlnonxyap read RAD;
15 b reads DARE:
aim, a8. m B~ath ሐሰብ
nag, B-DcFhbOX. 0 DcFhwX read Jሰብ;
ወገበርከኮ፤
= መ omits.
=a. 3 AJHAI
= ey read መናፍ&ፍስት'i buty adds
HlመY; also.

Na, aeBpifInowyas.

bረFx read ወድብ;

4 ድቤN;

nine words through hmt,

Ph;

must here be taken as a future.

25 7m, Brn read AምመUበy:

7 0 reads Dh;

=a-0.

25 dg omits next

0,8 read ገሰብው፣

ወናጻሸች፣ 25 reads Jሰብጥ; only.
8 also adds ወንበር: (2 ወንባርኻ፡). = trans.
ንሰብሖ aኳቫ ንባርከኮ፡
==, 8 read ስብሐቲሆሁ፡
" 9, 5 prefix ©.
nu c reads
ወጺንርካሣብ፡

5 Hn (2 10),

= raragtorouey,

'# ወጺገበዴፎ፣

ወዚንረኻዛብ፡

5 5 reads AJAY:

5

ads በትረ፡

= gesa read ምበሪ

w, 5 omit.

mg

«# omits.

” 9 reads Aስከ፡ ሲ.

B

ap ንሰደ.ፎ፡

ag

omits.

116

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

RTE

7. ኣስመ፡ በቅ.ፎጃሆሁ፡ “ዚጽመኔ፡
ወ፡ጺሰባሕነ።
ወተስፋነ፡

ሰስሙ፡፡

ኮዞ፡ ዷበ።

ሰኣግዚጸ፣
በትረ:

መንፈሳት

|ወጺሰባሕናሆሁ፣፡

ሰጻግዚኣ፡፡]

መንሥት“

ወዷበ፡። ስብሐቲነ።"
8. ወበዕለች፡ ስራሕ ወም ንዳቤነ፤ ጺያ.ፎሣዘ፡
ወxንረኻብ፡ ዕረፍ ንጻመን፤"

ኣስመ

መሃይምን፤

ውኣጻቱ፡'፡ ኣግዚኣኔ"

በዙሰ፡ ምፃባፉ፤ ወ“ሹገኔሆሁ፡ ወጽ.ፎቁ፡

ወገጺ፤፡ ቫነኔ“ሁ፡፡ ጽጺድነሥሉ።
0. ወነልፍ፡

ጸምገዷ፡

በኣንተ፡” ምፃባሪ

ወዙ ። ኃጢጸሻኘ፡። በጽ.ፎቅ፡ ተጐሰቁ።
10. ይኣዜ፡።

ይብልዎመ“።

ትጸኘብ፡;።

ኣምልበ፡። ሰክበደ፤” ሲል”
11. ወጻም.ፎሣዳረዝ፡ ደመልኣ፡ ገጾመ፡
ኣመሐያመ፡

ነፍስ

ጳምንዋዩ፡

ጽልመት

ፀበመዛ፡

ወጋፍረት፡።

ወጺ።“ትክልኣ፡”

ወሪፉገኘ፣።

በቅ.ፎመ፤ ዝኩ ወልደ፤

ኣኝዃሰ፡

ወኣምቅ.ድመ፡። ገቛ፤ ይሰይደዲ፡
ወሰይፍ፤።

የጋ.ፎር፡ ቅድመ፤

12. ከመዝ;

ዴቤ;

ገጽ፡። ማኣከሎመሙ።፡።

ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሰገ፣።

ዝ“ውኣጻቱ"

ሥርዓጎቱ"

ወሸሹነኔሆ፡“ ሰ“0ዚዛን፡

' 5 reads በቁዷመ“፥ ። በቅድመ
5 2 omits.
5 g omits together with next
three words,
«2m, /u, 9 reads Aha and trans. after mመ}&.". §~n read በNስw
ሣ ስሞ
5 £0, e751. m reads AJAY:
Zu, B-e/y፣ HY:
The succeeding
bracketed clause is a dittography.
5 ። adds ስም;
7 8 reads AAJHA: በfሱ፡
YJ
u omits.
5 # reads A.
m reads 0&0: ss omits.
i ODE
fu, Fo read miei
9, 458i» Yi ie; » oY Ye;
Bcx omit.
uu mC
omit.

# omits next six words.

# 9 reads በ0AY;

= ወ0ሰች፡

I

Feat

5 eh» read YR;

5 9 adds ወብዕ0ል፤፡

5 mu omits together with

next three words. B trans. AE: after AHA
7sm/prefix®.
* adds PAH:
በዙ ምግበፉፍ፡ ወሸሉ፡ 8 aባዛs በዙ
nF prefixes ©. m reads lA
n g prefixes ©.
= 9 reads DWN
= 90u read BAY
= Dn read LAL:
# Filoab read £ቤApi
= m, e read ጽገብ:
=” ns Bn. £ ትላN; ያ YA
u,t Jnh፡

። ንክከልዕ፡

bx AAV:
nF omits,

7 ዛሪ reads TወርዶYY

5 ወ.

= m reads YE;

™» 9 reads ሰፍ

5 eFhn read ማOnሌሆPwi

a8 ሰደደ

ኣላግዚጸብሔር

Other MSS, SEY;

0 B omits.

ዘደ 8-8 rad ጸምላባህበ፤

” = gdpos corrupt (2) for Bdpw = « stronghold.” 9 omits.
Smt.
ua-im.,

m,B—COYHmi

cvidence is irresistible. See next note.
ወሸኔ;
5 m omits.

©.

a2 shi

08 omit.

= £ adds tC:

8 no:

ae, mn,

4 adds

Other MSS. YE;

The construction is unusual, but the textual

3a, ag7F BRODY.

Deesix,a read

PX

= TRV. E.

ወ’ሲነገሥመት፡

ወሰእፁሳን፡።

መጽሐፈ፡
ወሴ’ኣሰ፡

ዴኣጻሣሽዋ፡

ዛኛ፡
ለየብስ;

117
በቅፎመ፡

ኣግዚጸ፡

መናፍስት።፡

LXIV. ወል:
ገጻተ: ርጺኩ፥ በውጻቱ፡ መካን ሣቡጻች።፣
2. ሰማዕኩ፡፡ ቃሉ"
ሰመልጸካ;። ሓጻንዘ፡ ዶብል፡ ጻሱ፡ ውጻተመ፡።” መላኳ
ጻለ፡። ወረዲዷ፡'። ዴበ፡ ምድር
ወዘበኝቡልኳ፡፡ ከሠቲ፡ ሰውሱደ፤ ሰብኳ፡፡፡ ወጸስሐት ዎመ ሲሰ“ው.ደ፡፣ ሰብኣኳ፤ ከመ፡ ዴዶግበሂ፡
ጋኃጢጸተ።
LXV. በ“ጻማንቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ርኳዩ። ኖሣ፤ ም.ፎረ፡” ከመ” ጸጽክኝ፡” ወከመ፡
ቅፉብ፡ ሕኾሳ።።

2. ወ“ጸንሥመጸ፡

ጻገሪሆሁ፡።

ልምህዩ።

ወውሖረ፡።

ልስከ፡

ጸጽናፈ፡

ምድር

ወጺርኘኝ። ሲጻምጃው፡። ሄኖክ ወይቤ፡። ኖሣ;። በቃል፡” መራር፡” ስምዐኒ ስምዐ፤፡ ስምዐኒ
“ሥመልበ።
3. ወ።ኣቤሉ፡። ጌኘረኒ፡፡ ምንት “ውጻቱ፡ ዘ“ይትገበር፡። ዴበ፡። ም.ፎር፡ ኣስመ፡
ከመዝ፡ ሰርሐት፡ ምድር፡ ወጸንቀልቁሰት፡ ዮ፤፤ ጸ፤፣ ኣትጋጐኮል፡ ምስሒሃ።
4. ወበድሕሪረ፤፣
ውጻቲ፡። ፲ዜ፡ ኮኔ ሀውሕ፣ ዐፀቢድዴ፤ ዷበ;። ም.ድር፡ ወተሰምዐበ፡ ቃል፡" ኣምሰማይ፡ ወወ.ደቁ
በገጽየ።
5. ወመጽጾ፡ ሃኖካ፡ ጳምሔው’“ዩ፡”። ወቁቅመ፡ ንቤዩ፡ ወዴቤለኒ፡። በምንነ፤*

ጸራሕክ፤ ገቤዩ። ጽራሣ፡። መሪረ፡ ወብኻዩ።“
6. ወትጻዛዝ፡ ወጽጸ፤ ኣምቅ.ፎመ፡። “18;
ሓፓዚኣ፡ ፉበ; ጻሰ፡ የሒድፎፉ፥ የብሰ;“ ከመ፣ ውኣቱ፡። ይኩን፡“" ሕልቁተመ፡ ኣጻስመ፤ ጸኣመሂ፡
ዙሉ ኃቡጻት፣ መሳልሕነ፡ ወሉ 7ፍ0;" ሰይጣናት ወሉ ጋይዴሎመ፡ “ሣቡጸ፡። ሣጻት፡።

1 me omits,
2 ww omits.
5 wu reads A. 9 omits.
« 9 reads ሲድር:
ob omit,
° adds ዝንE፡ ውኣቲቱ፡ ሥመርፀተመ፡
ctu, apcgZFBssinoxa,y.
ዘ, ሮ ተሮad ኻእጻች፣ ያ ካልእኣ፡
' 9 read ገጻጓ፣
፣ ያያ 8. # ሣቡጻን፤ ። ግቡጻት'፣ = omits.
% adds CRW.
movx prefix©.
0 m reads Pri
m reads AመAላANY:
g reads ARM: and trans. after £ብAN;
። a. 8 ጸሙን
5 0b read DAA
9

4 ያ 3 ጻባ ጸምሰማይ
ag, aks0. gf pHi AR!
S4/s/n a8 ወHኝቡዕ):
cx ዘኝቡ፡
e omits next three words throueh hmt. o8 add hoi hh pa
7 ag. 0, 3 read D0.
15 9g reads CA; / CX AH:
1» Zw, B. Fm read PEC:

gf ምድር:
” dreads YH
= a. 8 reads EHH:
ሐኾሲ፡
5 #reads RYviAhi AJC
5 freads CW
ወጸራሣኩ፡
5 # omits.
= zu omits.

5 # adds $. sw reads በA",
5 mm reads በ20;
mF.
5 a,0., #።, 8-5 read ድቤ:

= mgt, B-Bob. Fw Bop
0b hei
5 # reads

3 agp 8. 9 reads ይቤሉ: ! pa;
Other MSS. መéርi
5% g, gs omit,
፣ ድቤሰኒ፡
= ss omits.
5 mw adds

ውልጻቲ
5 a, B~F read በ£0i /HX0:
i adeFBiRI0. 2 reads DAC: mg
ወበይደጋ(ያ፣ኘ)ሪ፤ ። ወበደሕፀ፤
/ omits. Scyx pድሣረi
» ወAም.EኝE
58 mgt
read AY;
5 aob read በ&f;
n
adds £0; EC: 5» 0ቢEi
= 8 omits.
2 #0. Other MSS. AY
#» gu omit.
# 9 reads ብደ: # ብኻ:
“au.
ዞ, Bu read ጸምኝግበ፤ ። ጸም፤
“5 ሪ-9ሠ Bn g reads ገጺ፡ ጻግዚጸ፡ መናፍስ ዷደበ፡

። ጸፃዚኣ፡ ኣምቅድመ፡፤ ገጸ ሰ. ። ገ8፤ ኣንዚኣዩ፡ ዷበ፡

a.

# #በ፡ የብስ፡
gh Ban.

F omits.
50 fu read 29;
w reads JAY; 9,8 omit.

5 ayn omit.
m reads AAA:

5 m reads PRhው]i
gu, an! omit,
=m

fe B-u read ውስት; የብስ፡

118

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

REND XN

“ወ
Jግይሎመ፡፡ ሰጻሰ፡ ይገብ ሥመራያተ፡፡ ወገይደሎመ፡ ለሣብራት፡፡ ወጋይደሎመሙ፡፡፣
ሲጻሰ፡ ይሰብኩ፡፡ ስብኮ፡ ሰ
ምድር።’
፣. ወ“ኣፎ፤ ይትወሲፎ፣ ብሩር፡ ኣምፀበለ፡
ም.ድር፡ ወጻፎ፤ ይክውን፣ ነጠብጣብ፡ ደበ ም.ድር።
5. ኣስመ፡ በረር፡ ወናኣሕ፡ ዚጺድትወሰ.ፎ፡

ኣም.ፎር፡ “ከመ፤ ቁቅዳሚ፤። ነቅዕ፡ ወኣቱ፡ ዘያወልደመሙ፡” ወመልጸ፣
ወ“ይደበቢ.ፎር፡“*

ውጻቱ፡

መልጸኽ።

9. ወጻም.ፎሣረ“ሽ፡፣

ድቁውም፡። ውስቴቱ

ጸጋዘ፤ኒ፡

ኣምሔውዩ፡

ሄኖኳ፡

በኣዴዩ፡። ወጸንሥመጸሂ፡፣ ወይዴቤሰሲኒ፣ ፁር፡" ኣስመ፡ ተፕስኣልከዎ፣፤ ሰኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት”
በጻንተዝ፡” ሀውሕ፤ ዘ።ፉበ፤ ም.ፎር።
10. ወዶድቤሲ፤ኒ፤ በጻንች፡” በመባሆመ፡ ትፈጸመኝ

ቫጌኔሆመ፡ ተወጽጺዴትቴሰቅ።። በቅ.ድፎቓዩ፡ በኣንች፣ ተጸውራኝ፤። ዘንሠሠ፤፥ ወጸኣመና፡። ም.ድር፡
ችትትሕኾል፡ ወጻሰለ፣ የጋ.ፎፉ፡። ዲደቤሃ።
11. ወጻሰ፡” ምግባጸ;” ጽልቦመ“ ሰዓሲለም፡
ኣስመ፡፣ ዘርጸደዎመ፡፥ ዘሣቡኣ፡ ወጻሰ፡ ችኩጎፉ፤ ወ"ሰከ፡፡ ጸንት፡ ወል.ፎዩ፡ ጸኣመረ፤ ኣግዚይ፡
መንፈሰት፡ ጳስመ፤ ንጹሕ፤ ወቕር፤ ጸንተ፡። ኣኳምሽ፡። ሂስ” ዘ“ሣቡጻት።
12. ወጽጽንዞ፡

ሰስምክ፡።

በማኣጻከሰ፡።”

ቅዲዷሰን፡

ሰ“ዘርኣከ፡

ዘጽድቅ”

ሰነገመኝ፡“"

ወዩዐፀቅበከ፡።
ወለስብሕት፣

ኣምኣሰ፡

የሐሮድፉፋ፡፥ ደበ;

የብስ፡

ወጻምዘርኣክ፡

ድወዕኣ፡

ዐቢያት፣፥

ወጸጽንዞ፡
1ቅ0፡

ጻድቃን፡ ወቐዲሰን፤ ወ“ጐልቁ፡ ጸእቦሙ፡” ሰዓንሲም።
ጃዝ. ወጻም.ድፎሣሪረ፡ ዝ፥ ጸርጸዩኒ፡።
መሳባኣሕት፡ መቅሠፍት “ኣሰ፡ .ፎልዋን፡፣ ከመ፡ “ይምጽጵ፡ ወዴፍትሑ፡” ዙሉ፡ ገኘዴሰ፡ ማይ

1 0, aeBniy omit.

። # adds ሥራት

©.

5 m reads

4 g reads

ሰጻሰ፡ ይገብፉ፡ ሰጎብራት፣ 5+ omit.
5 Bx omit.
ሩ u reads ሰብኮi 9 ይገብፉ
7 g reads ስ:
0X read በች
° 2 reas ፍጥረት
" a-gm. m reads ስኩ
9, 8-5 ወኣስኩ፡ ፣ ወጻስከ፣
9 omits.
2 reads AN; pA; 1m trans. pA
after 105
5 F0u. mt gread HAs
“8 prefixes
(xay HY).
mn
omit.
5 fF reads ትር:
Beer conjectures CE:
iE Onis:
50
imfu, B read በAEW:
"ru. mhBread Ci
mr Other MSS. መéENስY;
2 tv prefixes ©.
5 0, aehx read 0.
WIEN)
I
IB: OE read
ወጺደችጐለቅ
[ext = HUPh-NDN corrupt for ps
= (wil not be restrained.
2 £F reads Rውራy
Text = bibn corrupt for bn = « sorceries (Halevi).
5 mg, 8B add hai against Z/w.
7 e reads iA
3 bcx read AA
Flemming suggests At; AA; but no change of text is necessary.
We have here
a nomin. Pendens.
5 am, g80. m, B~gho read Ni
IA
here =

drorrpopn = nan which here means « repentance ' (Halévi).
Mam. m reads Ahi
B DRhi
9 trans. before 18.0hi ae/h8nyw trans. before O2Ci
= # reads AH:

ሠም;

5 /u read ሔስi

=

e omits next Seven words,

ዘበጽድቅ፣፡
ጊ ያዐፉ

8 በጽድቅ፡

“6

reads UH.

”» a adds pዲስ፡

5 reads ማAhA:

7 9 reads DYN;

5 e omits.

Nag.

ያ። read ወነገሠመት፡

ያ ወለመንግስት፡

/ ወበመንፃመት፡፣

መ, 8 read KAቀ፡ ጸልቦመ“፥

። ጸልቦ፡ ጐልዬ፡

rad ድመጽጵ፣ ወድዴፈትሕ፡ (= ወይፌሥመሑ፡).

“

5 g reads RCAEL:

ያ a

ሰማይ፤

g reads

SpE

ያ ሰማይዴ፡ ወማድ፡

LXVL. I—LXVIL. 6.

ሮመጽሐፈ፡

ህኖ:

119

ዘመትወች። ም.ድር፡ ከመ፡ ይዙንኽ ሲሰሹነኔ፡ ወለሐኾል፡ ሰዙሲ፡፡ ጻሰ፡ ድነብፉሯ፡፡ |ወዩየሐ.ፎፉ፤]፥
ደበ; የብስ።

2. ወ'’ጸዘዘ፡ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳ

መላባኳክት፤ ጻሰ፤ ዴፎወፀጽ፡ ከመ

ኣደወ፤ ወዴዕቁበ፡ ኣስመ፤፡ ኣልኩ?" መሳኣጻኻክ፣ ዷበ፡ ጋይሰ፤፡ ማያት" ሀለዉ

ኣም“ቅፎመ፡፣

ገጺ ሄኖኻ።

LXVIL

ወበaማYE:

መዋ0A;

ዚያንሥጵ፡፣
3. ወወባጻኩ፡፤

hi 2A: aንHRብሔC:

ኃቤና፡ ወዴቤሰ፤ኒ፡ ኖሣ፡" ካፍልክ፡ ዐር1;። ጋቤና; ኳፍል፡። ዘጸልቦቲቱ፡ ሒስ፡ ካፍሰሲ፡ ፍቅር
ወርትች0።

2. ወይደጻዜሃ፡

ይገብሩ“

መሳጻክት፡

ዕፀወ፡”

ወሰበ፡

ወፎጵ፡፡

ሰውኣቱ፡

መላኣኻች፣ ኣወዷኗ፤ ኣዴዩ፡፡ ደቤሃ፡ ወጸዐቸባ፡፡ ወች ክውን፣፤ ኣምኔሃ፡ ዘርጸ፡ ሕይወት፥ ወተውሳጥ፡።
ዴባኣጻ፤ ከመ፡ ጺዴንበር፡ የብስ፡” ዕራቁ።
3. ወጸጺንያ፡። ሰዘርኋከ፡ በቅ.ድፎዩ። ለዓለመ;
ዓሲም፡

ወኣዘርጸመ፡

ለኣኳሰ፡

ዩየጋሮፎኗ፡

ምስሌከ”

ተዚይመሕር፡።

ደበ:

ገጺ;።

የብስ

ወደችባረኻ፡ ወዴት በዛሕ፡። ቅ.ፎመ፡። ዩብስ፡ በ“ስመ፥ ሰጻኘዚጻ።”
4. ወዩፀጽዎመሙ፡።
ሲ“ኣሙኝንቱ፡። መላሳጻሕት፤ ኣሰ፤ ጸርጸዴይዋ፤ ለዓመቫ፡ ውስኘጊ፡ ውኣጻቱ፡። ቈሳ፡። ኣንተ ትነኔፎድ፡።
ኣንገ፡ ጸርጸዩኒ፡ ቁዋዳሚ፡። አምጨሔውዩ፤ ሄኖኳኻ፡ በዓንረብ፡ በኘበ፡ ጸድባረ፡ ወርቅ፣ ወብፉር፡
ወሕሐፉኝ፤ ወነጠብጣብ፣፡ ወናልጻክ።
5. ወርዚኻዋ፣፤ ሲሰይጻቲ፣ ቈሳባ፡ ጻንት፡። ሀውሕ፤ ዓቢይ
በቲ፡። ወሀውክ፡።” ማያት።
6. ወዝንቱ ሺሹ” ሶሰበ፡;። ተፕገብሪረ፡። ጳምውጻኣቱ፡ ነጠብጣበ፤*
ኣሳሰት፡ ወ“ሀውኮሙመ፡። በውኣቲቱ፡ መኻሣኘጌ፣ ተወልዶደ፡” ጴሪ፤ ተደ ወ“ተጋብረ፡" መስለ፤ ጻልኩ፡

1 a reads 0%.

2 g reads mቅwet;

3 iu,

mg, Bn read Afri

A.

« g omits together with following ©.
2 Bracketed as a dittoaraphy. #, 9x omit,
but all other MSS. support text.
5 g omits.
+ # omits.
5 ድ reads LA

saw.
0ር7;

B-ni0 ANE; » Ai
9 reads ሰ:
5 F omits next three words through hmt.

n,8 add 605
#9 reads
For WEAN; m9 read eEfh:

# B-X. a, % read ‘TAZ;
5 Z reads 000;
iF, Fg# read DEN,
HOEY
B-o ወፀጽ፡ 0 መጽ
7 # omits.
፣5 m #9, 8. £ reads 0p; 5" 0ቅበ; = ጸቅባ፡
5 0,6. ያ/u, 8-6 read ተውላጠ
ተችውላጠ፡
20 mm trans. after 0ራY;
UE

B-eBpoxay.

#m

Box,ay

read ወRXYP:

v ORR

= m reads PE;

Sy omits.
5 15s AMC:
which is read by a, B-Bdoxy corrupt for
Kጴይመን: or ri?
Inf the C is over an erasure.
Bdg0XyS omit. cp trans.

after ብስ: and read ይመር:

£0; 1A: tብስ፡ (7 ምድ).

read ውስli

= ey read PድርC:i

» ወስኘ

5 /reads Ni AHA

read DtOፀ©- Pw;
B-Dcix read ይቲ:

5 g reads Pk
mg, eFBn,

7 bx read ይብዛኝi

o ስ

5a. mgt tread AA;
35 05 read @AY

Spe

ሲጻፃግዚጸ፤ መናፍስት

FP

A

3-5 AAME; ። omits.
= agcix.
# m omits together with next word.

wu omits.
# m adds UA;
7 9, b read 30;
* ow omit.
reads yh; /, 5 YUውክ፤ #08 ትUውH: 5 4% TUውh: 5 ትUውN፡

። ችሀውኩ፡
40 m reads PAE:
au m trans. before YE:
Sg, dF0 aBread yi;
* #. 2 reads {yh
» hoi Uh

# ny’ tሆwis
SEbIRnX.

af loa

= asF/B8 /p read £0:

8 is conflate Woh; HtUohav;
m reads JAC:
9, 5/0 ተTYyብረi
= Jብረ;

5 m adds Qh:
9 Uh

5 m reads TONE:

120

|

መጽሕፉ፡

ዛኛካኻ፡

LXVII. 613.

ማያት ወይኳቲ፡ ቈሳ፡ “ኣን መሳጻሕች፤ ኣሰ፡ ዘስሕቱ ጓንፎ.ፎ፤ መትሕት፤ ዴኣኳቲ፡ ምድር።
7. መኣንተ፡ ቈሳት፡ ዚጸሃ፡ ዘፍሳባኘ፣፤ ጻሳኝ፡ “ይመጽጽ፡ ኘበ፡;፡ ይኹነኒ ኣልኻፒቱ።፡ መሳጻክት
ኣሰ፡ ጸስሐሕትዎመ፥ ሰጻሰ፡ የጋ.ፎፉ፡፡ ዲሄበ፡ የብስ።
በኣማንፒቱ፡ መኖዋዕል፡ ሲነገሠመኝ፡ ወለዐዚዛቫን፡ ወለልፁሳኘ፡፡

8. ወይከውኒ፡፤ ጻልኩ፡። ማያት
ወ’ለኣጻሰ፡ የጋ.ፎዷ፡። ዲበ፡" ሂብስ፡

ሰፈውዕ፡ ሥጋ፡። ወ“"ሲቫነኔ፤ መንፈስ፡ ወችወኔ፡'፡ ይመልኣ፤ መንፈሰመ፡
ምጋሆመ፡"፣ ኣስመ፤ ክሕ.ድያዎ፤ ለጻኘዚጸ፡ መንፈሳገ።"

ወይሬዩ፡"።

ከመ

ቫነጌሆመ፡፥

ዶትኩነን፤።

ጻንተ፡" *ሲ፡

ዕሲት፡።” ወ።“ዚ“ዩየጸምፉ፡። በስሙ።፡።
9. ወከመ፡ ብዙኘ;። ውዕ0ዩ፡። ሥጋሆመ
“ከመዝ
ቦመ፡። ተውሳጠጢ፤። ሰመንፈስ፡;። ሲዓሰመ፤ ዓሰም ጳስመ፤ ጸልቦ፡ በቐ.ድመ፤ ኣግዚጾ፡ መንፈሳት
ዘዴነኘር፡”

ነገረ”

በኻ።

10.

ኣስመ፡

ትመጽልጻ፡

ቫሸነኔ፡

ዲቤሆመ።

ጻስመ፡

የጸምፉ፤።

በተወኔተ፡። ሥጋሆሙ ወመንፈበስ፡ ጳንዚጳጻ፤ ድካሕዱ።
11. ወ“ኪያሆሁ፡። ማሇጓ። በውኣቱ
መቐየዕል፡ ቦመ“ ተውባጠጢ፡። ኣጸስመ፤ ሶበ፤ ዴትኬነፉ፤ ልኩ“ መሳጻክት፣ በውልኣቱ፡”" ማያት
ይትዩሰጡ፡። ዋዕዮመ፡፥ ጻልኩ፡። ጸንቅዕት፡ ማያሻ፡ ወሶበ የዐርጊ;" መሳኳጻክት፤ ዶትዊሰለጥ፡

ዝኩ፡

ማያች፡።

ዘጸንቅዕች፡።

ወይቁቈርፉ።።

12. ወሰማዕኳዎ፤

ያወሥመል፡።” ወይዴብል፤ “ሸነኔ፤ ዛቲ“ ሓኣንት፤ ይትኬነኒ፡
ሲነገሥኝ፡ ወሰ“0ዚዛን፣፡ ኣሰ” ይጻሣዝዋ፡ ሰዩየብስ።
' 9 adds HAY:

sa-gu, BH.

= ## omits.

wi AAW

5 g omits.

5 ZZ trans. after Ah;

ina omit, and read next word as $0);

omits.

መሳባጻሕት።።”
19. ጳስመ፡፡

p erases.

0

gmx.

ሰጋ;

"8,8. mgnu omit.

5 a.

ሰሲ“ሚካዜዬልእ፣

እንዘ፡

ሰማዕኀ፥። ይኣቲ።
ሓሰ ማዩ” ሸኔ

«a. B reads ዴወጽጵ

0305

7 ## reads ውስት;

g/0.

B reads ANE:

5 eBvw omit.

Iu 8-Bx APN; ns 5 add 1Ehi ©.

™ F reads

= መ(ወYውኔትS)ያ 8. £9 read ወተት ("YS 9);

u mu. #18 read YW:
bcvx prefix ቢቢ.
gmt Other MSS. መS&ስት;
15 £ reads eR ti: / ይeጺi
፣ ይeኣይ:
un wu omits. dg reads NAY
0 mu read WN: 0A;
1 & omits.
= 9 reads PAL;
5 05 add
ሰሲኣፓዚጸ፡ መናፍስ
5 ያ, -4ሃ».
reads ብዙ»; 9/።, 4» ብዙሣ፤
ብዘጋ]
5 dy read PO:
5 2 reads hi Ho; 9 ho: 0:
7 9, agsk. 2 reads
ችወሰጠ፤ , 5-558 ተውላሳጥ፡
5b B. gu read በመገንፈስ፤ መ reads መንፈስ
and trans. after Ari # adds AዓAም;i ©.
5 F/u. mg, 3 read HEYS'IC:
50 a, af0. B~aFy read yl:
ለኣጻልካቲቱ፡
። ጻልኳቱ፡
» ኪያሆን፡
መ, ፀ~a»ቋ ead ችውሳጥ፡

ADB:
Pow read WIPE:
= c reads
ሀ omit.
5 9 adds ©.
aan, ah.
5
iu, BBcdginow (save that ae prefix A).

Bcginowx,ay read AA; m HAaYE: 9 AYE
” 5 omits.
5 BD read
መዋዕል፡ 5 omits.
5. Other MSS. £ችዌAT
5 au, wu reads ANAM:
Ff, a7 BIRD
AAA
bcgioxy,ag AARNE:
nu adds AYE
«8 reads
ማይ;

9 omits.

# B adds ቁዱስ
5 g prefixes ©.
of 8 AAA

5 g reads HRYYOY

529.

Other MSS. read CC:

5 2m, pb read ውል
45 B trans.
#7 ww reads AMY:
wu reads ሰማYi
» n omits.
0 a, géFhvRn. » reads DAM;
5 a7. 9g reads HY; 9 FEY:

LXVIH. 13 —LXVIIL. 5.

ሰፈውስሰ፡ ሥጋሆሙ’
ክመ፡
ይትዌለጡ፡፡
LXVIIL.
ኣምሔጨሔውዩ፡

መጽጥሐፈ፡

191

ሰመላኣክት፡፡ ወለተውኔተ፡፡ ሥጋሆመ“፡ ወጺዴሬኣዩ፡ ወጺዩየጸምፉ፤፣
ኣሙንቱ።።
ማያት፡
ወይከውኔ፡?
ኣሳተ።። ዘደነፎድ፣
ለዓለም

Oaምድሣረዝ:
ሄኖሕዃ፡

ህና

ወሀበኒ:

ወ“ምሰልያተ፡"

“Yaምርችት፡
ኣሰ:

ሎሙ"

ኃቡጓት፡”

ሎቱ፡

ወደመሮመ፡፥

ተውህበ;

በመጽሐፍ"
ሊት፡

በ“1ገረ

መጽሕፍ" ዘምሳሰሴሌ።።
2. ወ።ይኣጻት፡ ዕሰት፡" ጸዘውሥጸ፡" ሚካሌል፣ ሓጻንዘ፡ ይብል
ሰፉፉዬል፡ Jገዴሱ፡። ሰመንፈስ፡ “ይመሥመጠኒ፡ ወያምዕዐኒ፡። በኣንተ;። ዕ0ፀቡ፡። ሰሸነኔ፤ ኣንተ
ሣቡጻኝ። ለሸነኔ፡" መኒ፤ ውጻቲቱ፡። ዘዴካል፡ ተዐ07ቻተ፡ ዕፁበ፡;። ሰኣኳንት፡ ትገብረት፣” ቫሃኔ፡”
ወዴትመሰዉ። በቐ.ድሜሃ።
3. ወጸውሥጾ፡;። ካዕበ፡። ወደቤሎ፡።” ሚካሌል፡፣ ሲሰ“ፉፉሌል፡።
መፉ፡ ውልጻቲ፡ ዘጺዴረስሕ፡። ልቡ፡። ዲቤሃ: ወጺዴይትሀወ፡ ሹሰያቲሆ፡” ጳምዛቲ፡ ቃሰሲ፡"

“ቫነኔ፡ ወፀጸት፡። ደቤሆሙ፡ |ኣምኔሆመሙመ፡| ዘጸጽውፀኣዎመሙ፡ ከመዝ።
4. ወከ“ ሶሰበ፣ ቁመ፡
በቅ.ድመ፡ ኣንዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት“ ወከመዝ፡“ ይቤሉ“ ሚካዜል፡ ሰፉፉሌስል፡ ወጺይከውን፡“
ሎመ፡። በውስተ፣ ዓይኔ" ጳጸግዚኣ፤ ኣስመ፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳኝ፡። ትምዕፆመሙመ“ ኣስመ፤ ጸምሰሰለ።
ኣፃዚኣ፡” ዴገብሩ።
5. በጻንተሽ፡። ይዶመጽኣ፡ ሳዕሴሆመ፡ ሹሱ፡። ዘሣቡኣ፡”። ሰንሰመ፡
i bcvx read HAPs
a omits next three words.
ሥጋሆሙ
2m. Zg/u read DAYኔY:
5» AY:
ወጺይደጸምኒ፡

፡ a.

8 reads ትመጡ:

2b» omit.
y» omits.

° 5 reads Ani

7

o,as add
+ £9 read

reads ይከውን:

¢ 9 reads AY
? 9 ads ወጻምኽሽ፡
0 m reads WN; 4; (sic) ትምርት;
1 Fgu,0,ab. mreads 4A!
5-028 ዳት
” reads በመጽሐፈi
"2nV
omit,
#age/8°i8I0wy read ምሰሌ
a. f8 read H.
1 a-u,acFhssin.
tt, bc d0ox ay read ተውባ:
17 # reads መጽሐፈ: IC:
5 9, vy read Hምስt:
mu. 9/8 read በ£ኣL: 0AYI
nt D0. Zu read RAL: abcgeFi
nx, as
ጸውሥመይ፤ 8 a5 ቅዷስ፡
= ፳ reads ፇይሰ፡
= ያ reads ይምሥመጠኒ፡ ወያም0ኒ፡ (sic).
For OP 00i5 # reads POL
9,8 prefix@.
* m reads 00Ltሁ: 9 004;
ie omits next three words.
5 gu, apce/ifloxab. 2,8 read AA:
mn, gn
ሣብዕት፡
5 9, 8 add መላኣሕች፡
27 e omits.
5 mn reads +337;
5 g,e read
0ፀቡ፡

። 0ፁባጊ

30 eB5 read ተበት

B-c gets read ደYመሰውs

x 8 adds Diበረችi

«s olመሰa

ወጸውሥጸኒ፡

።ኋ ወጸውሥይ፡

ሚnሌእi

= 9 reads ይቤ:

in

= u,cdgesn.

5° inserts &. after ©.

omit.

nw omit.

a trans. together with Db;

8 adds phi

aH,

5 gu read

0 omits.

after

ax add

ቅዱስ፡
“a / reads Hድትራጋራሣ፤
abc ge/tIn xy HAያረJርCA: (or "EBC: or
“ራግርሣ) ፩፣ ዘጺያርኘርሣ፤ ዕ5 ዘጻያርጋርጋ፤
=a.
መ reas እቡብ፤ 5 ልእቦ፡
"መ
reads H£ቤy፡ 2 ሶበ፡ ይረስሕ፡ ልእቡ፥ ሶበ ኗቤሃ፡
"ያ. /።, 5 ሹልያቲሁ፥ 9 ቫሃኔ፡ ዙሰንታሃ፡

= x reads ወፀAY: fii
“gg. miu, 8 read Phi
9, 8 read መeፍEስትi
= 9 reads OAH; wx hh:
ወዴከውን፣

። ወጺይኩን፡

ZF reads Yi
5 9,

prefix ©.

“ag.
9 reads ho.
“8 adds pዱስi
“9 reads

።፡፣ ዚጺድክከውን፤፡

“5፡5 aባd ምሕረት

8 inserts it in margin,

9 adds AJHLRAብሔር:

0 B reads በጸምሳሰ፡

5 ZF reads AIHA:

5m.

9g read tN:
KR

3 fi:

# Bow read H.

# omits.

a9

መጽሐፈ፡

ዓሲም፤

ኣስመ፡

ዙገኔ፡

TRIS TRE

ወጺብኣሲ፡፡

ጺ“ይትሟጠው፡።

መሕፈልተ፡፡

ትመጠጪዉ፡

*ሹነኔ፡ ዚጸሆሙ፡፡

ሰዓንሰመ፤ ዓሰም።

LXIX.

የደነኘገፀዎመሙመ፡፡፣

ወ'“የምዕዕዎመ፡""

በሕቲተሙ፡

የብስ።
ቁዳማዩ።፡

ጺ'መልጸካ፡

ዛኛኝ፡

ጻስመ፡፤

ዘንተ;

ጸርጸዩ፤

ጸሳ።

ኣሙንገቱ፡

ወA.ድሣረ

ሰሲ“ኣለ፡

የገፎፉ፤

ፈዷበ፡

2. ወነዋ; ጸስማቲሆመሙመሙ፡ ሲለጻልኩ፡። መሳጻኳኝ፡ “ወዝንቱ፡ ውጻቱ፡" ጸስማቲሆሙ፡
ዚጸሆሙ፡። ሰምሇዛ፡። ወካልኳ፡"* ጸርጣቁፉ፡”" ወሣልስ፡። ጸርሄገ;። ወራብዕ፡

ኮክከብሌጴል፡።”

ወጋምስ፡

ተኔቃሌስል፡”

ፓታስዕ፡”

ተጡፉሌል፡።

በራቅሌል፡።

ወካልኣ፤፡

በጠርያል፡።

ወጋምስ፤

ተጡርሌእ፡።ተ

ወሳድስ፡

ዓሥመር፡

ፉምሇያል፡”

ጸዛዝሌል፡።”

ዓሥመር፡ ወኝሣልስ፤፥ + በሰሰሌየል፡።
ዓሥመር፡ ወሰድስ፡

ወ።“ሰብዕ፣

ዳንያል፡።

ወጸሐዲዱ፥

ጸርማሮስ፡።

ዓሥር

ዓሥመር፡ ወራብዕ፡ ሐናንዜል፡።

ዓሥር

ዓመር፡

ሲሚፔሲሔል፡።

1 Dh omits.
° u reads HሰብA
ያ ይትጃጦ፤
ሃ።, ዕረsxሪaፀ ድትጃጠዉ፡
መክፈልተመ፡፥ ያ መልኣካተ፡ ወመካፈእተ፣፡

ዓሥር፡

2, B-bረ/hL
ያ “መጠጠዉ
' 9 reads ኣሱ፡

ወ“ሰብዕ;።

ሰምን፤።

ዴትርሔል፡”

m, »5 read ይትመው፡
VDD
TE
፡ 2» read ቫሃኔሆሙ፡

9 adds ኣስከ፤
7 g omits.
s Fmt B~<h, gu, ch read PIP
m prefixes ©.
2g omits.
0m, B~acihu. # reads Dያመ0ዎ; A800:
un POPs
9 omits.
a7 read ያመ00P; c POP
nm
bc. #9,h read Uw: ade/tinow HY:

omits.
On

Z adds #ii

the following

= 9 adds ሰብኣi
names

see

notes

ZFውሰደ ሰብኳ፤ ሲ
on pp. 15-16,

"ያ adds ጳስመ፤

and the Appendix

መ ስመ፡
on V1.1.

mp
F #u,B-# read AAANE
» g,e omit.
15 f apcd/i§ino. gma,eh
read ቁዳማይ:; 9, x ቀዳሚ
1 bee Omit:
5 gu.
Ink, m reads ስም
/u, cFBoRx ስምዛi
iu add Rሐዲ
3 reads On
nF. We should
here read RACE:
CI. 'Arapkoi® in Gs vi. 7. m reads Rርስጣቄፉ
9 ርሳ
tu, 8B ርስ (ጡሪ) ቁ (ቃሪ) 4
1 # reads DIANE;
5 m, FI read RCD;
5 a,e., 3~ef read hhባሌል፡
፣ ጸከብሌል፡
CL. VI.T. Gs Tau.
Other MSS. CRA:

a2,n. This is corrupt for ሌል
5
reads IRAN
5 Zw omit.

TF. mh abfvtinova read AYA
u £6;
u VEሌA: 5 +2
The text is corrupt for ቁል
no. 8.

ረ ብራቐሌል፤

5 B prefixes @©.

፡ ብርቃሌዜስል፡

5 Ft, abgkox.

5 # 8 prefix ©.
ma,
See Appendix on VI. 7,

mu read በራል:

5 rmp, 8B, tu read RHዛዜሌA:

9, e/8/n በራቅ.ል፡

Sa-gu.

g reads

ጸርማሎስ፡ ። ጸርማኖስ፡ 8-/።ዕ ጸርምርስ፤ /።ዕ ጸርሞርስ፡
።a-gu,8. ያ0ጥርያል፡
ሣ በርጠዩል፤
ሃ በበርዩል፡
5 mu.
9 reads በሰስያሌል፡
/ በሰስሌየል፤
ሪዕረd/os
በበሰሌል፡ 5፡48/። በሰስሌል፤ All these forms seem hopelessly corrupt. See Appendix
onVI.7,no.13.
SE9/u. m reads hS lt; 5 RS JAI
a,c. apde/finox read
ጡርያል፤ 5፤ ጨጤርያል፡ All forms corrupt. See Appendix on VI. 7, no. 15.
um).
9, ይ፣0 read ቤማፒቤሌል፡
/ ሲሚፓሲሌል፡
ሪ/ሪ። ሲማፒቤሌል፤
ያያ
ሲማፒሲሌዬል፡
g በማፒቤሌል፤፡
“። ሲምሲፒሌል፤
lhe original seems to have been something like
ZauuiX. See Appendix on V1.7, no. 16.
5 reads NY:
FZ. m reads

ዶስርጴስል፡ 9, a8 4/8፣#/0,8 ይተርዜእ፡

« ይሙጡርሌእ፡

። ድተርዩል፡

ኋ ጺተርሌስል፡

LXIX. 2-0.

መጽሐፈ:

ዛና:

1239

ዓሥመር፡ ወሰምን፤ ተቱማሌስእ፡፡ ዓሥመር፡ ወታስዕ፣ ጡርሌል፡፡። ዕሥራ ተፉማሌል፡፡ ዕመራ።
ወጸሕዲ፡ ተጸዛዜል።፡
3. ወኣቡ፡ ኣሙንቱ፡ ጸርኣስት፡ መሳጻክቲሆሙ፡፣ ወጸስማተሆሙ፡፡
ወመን
ምጻት፡'" ዚጸሆመ፥
ወመኰኩንነ፣ ምሰ;
ዚጸሆመ“። ወመኵንኔ፡ ፀሠርተ፡።
ዚጸሆሙ።
4. ወሣስመ፡ ሰቁዳማዊ፡። ዶቁን፣;" “ዝውጻቲቱ፡ ዘ"“ጸዘስሐተ፡ ሹሎመሙ፡። ቁቁ
መሳኳጻሕት'። ወ“ጽውረዶደመ፡፡' ዴበ፡;። የብስ፡ ወጸስሐተመ፡ ። በ።ጸዋልዶይ፡ ሰብኣ።።

ስሙ ጸስብጴል፡።” ዝንቱ “ጸዘመሮመ፡፥ ምሕረ፤ ኣጻኩዩ፡። ሲ“ደቁቁ፡
ወጸስሕተሙመ፡።” ከመ ያማስኒ፡ ሥጋሆመ፡ በ“"ጸዋልደ፤ ሰብጻኣጻ።
ጋ.ፎርሌስል፡፡ ዝንቱ፡። ዘጸርጸዩ፡ ዙሉ፡። ዝብጠተ፡።

ሰሔዋን፡። ወውኣኳቱ፡ ጸርጸዩ፡ |ጌዋዩ፡ ሞሻ

ሞት

ሲደቁቁ፡

5. ወ።ካልእ፡

ቅዲሳን
ስመ“
ሰብኣኳ፡ ወውኣጻቲቱ፡ ጸስሕ፡

ሰውሱ.ደ፤

መላኣካት፡”
6. ወ።ሣልስ፤

ሰብኳ፡]። “ወልታ፡ ወድርዐበ፡። ወሰድፈ፡

ሰ“ቁትል፡ ወዙሉ፡፡ ንዋዩ፡። ሞት ለውሱደ፡ ሰብኣጻ።
7. ወኣም፤ኔ፡ ኣዴሆሁ፡" ወፀጸ፡" ደቤሆሙመ፡
ሰጻሰ፡ የጋ.ፎኗ፡ ደበ; የብስ፡ ኣምድዶኳቲ፡ ዕሰገ፡“። ወ’ጻስከ፡ ሰ“ዓለመ፡። ዓለም።
8. ወራብዕ
ስሙመ፥ ፔኔሙል፡“ ዝንቱ፡ ጸርጸዩ፡"” ሰውሱደ፡ ሰብጻ፡ “መሪረ፡ ወመዓርዒሪረ፡“ ወጸርጸዮሙ፡
ዙሉ” ሣቡጻት፡ ጥበቦሙ።።
9. ውኣቲ፡” ጸሰበዎመ፡፥ ለሰብኣ፡ መጽሐፈ፡ በማዩ፤”
mu,

n Nርዩል፡
+A:

‘Fu.

8.

reads ታሌ:

7 Tመሌል፡

2 ያያ.

/ሃ። ጠርዜጴል፡

5-። ጠርሌስል፡

5 m reads DR. 9 HOé;
HE: su omits.
‘au, Bak. a% read
u omiis. Both forms seem corruptions for fFkA:
2 a prefixes H.

m reads HRA:

91, 4:8/na AWA:

a HHA:

95x ጸዜዜጵA:

«2

ይዜዜጹል፡
Je) ጴዜዜሌጵል፡
0 AዛዛዶA:
All these forms may be corruptions of
SapuiX. See Appendix on V1.7, no. 21.
7m reads መAላANYi
sg omits.
a, ek.

6-5 ሌሊ
10 Z reads AY
1 g reads E.
። £ reads 0ሠCE:
5 B omits.
# 2 reads APR:
au in. uw reads py: ac/pwx EY: 9 EY: DRI
ድቂ
1s Ft. m reads DዝውAE: H. 5 Hውat: 5 HIE.
7 0, br read
ዙሎ፡
ጸውረደ

" / bcgi/opyx
as agd pዲሳY: » AJዚጸብሔር፡
"ያያ omit.
9 reads
1 m adds .ድር፡ D.
5 m,y omit; y omits two following words.

5 £ reads 0.
1 9 reads LAP
5 X% reads DAN;
a ኻሰብሌል፡ ፣ ጸሶብጹል፡
9 reads ምኻር፡ ኣኩይ፡ ጸምክከሮመሙ፥፡

=

ደቁቁ፡

5 zw omits.

e/u.

g omits.

Breads WA

ሰሔኛ

5 r reads ©.

*u omits.

x m reads hi

5 / reads Aስባሌል፡
reads መሳጻካችት፡

=a. Breads HAY;

% A dittography from the close of the verse.

5ia-0.

m reads HY:

= mu, n read
9g reads AY;

ወ.ድር(0; BDciinox,ay support ag save that they prefix 0 to ONY; adqe/yi?w
ወድርበ፡; ወወልኝ፡ o adds ጸን7ድ3; afer ድር0;
= 9 reads ሰደፍ ሰ.
5 m adds
ሰብኳ፡ ቫ.
0 9 reads ARP
» በAዴy;
4 a reads DONS
“= 9,18 read ፉ:
5m, Bcdgloyxay omit.
# 0 reads TLR:
c ty):
9 adds © before next
word.
5 wu reads HACAt:
5 mn reads mééi መ3CE: YC:
méራ;

“9 ads ሹሱ፡
TNX.

ያx ለሹሎሙመ፡፥

ag, BN

ረ ሹትሎመ፡

X read Dloyt:

5 9, 5 read ጥበብ
9,፣ Ot;

v bc prefix

194

መጽሐፈ፡

ሣመኝጓ፥

ወ'ሕርታስ፡

ወበኣንተዝ፣

ወኣስክ፡ ዛቲ፡ ዕለት'።
ሐመት፣፥

ያጽኘንዑ፡፣
ከመ

ጽገሰሶሙመ፡

ጸሳ፡።

ዝብጠታት።

ይንበፉሩ፡”

በዝ፡።
ስመ“

ጻኩዩ፡።

XTX

ኣሰ። ዴስሕቲቱ፡፡

10. ጸስመ፡ ዚተወልደ፡፡

ሃዴማኖተሙ።

መሳጻካት';›

12. ወ“"ኃምስ፡

ብዙጋኃን፡፡

ዛኛነ፡
ኣምፃለም፡

ወኣስከ፡ ለዓለም

ሰብኳ፤ በዘ፡ ከመዝ፣ በቁሰም፣ ወበማዩ፡

11. ኣስመ

ጺ“ትፈጥረ፡።

ሰብኣ፤

“ንጺሓነ፡

ወጻፎቃ፤;።

ወሞት

ዴቸሐጐኮሱ፡

ወበዝንቱ

ሣድል፡፣

ተዴበልንኒ።።

“ውኣ፲ቱ፡

ዘ”ጸርጸዩ፡

ለሰውሱደ፡

ሰብኣ፤

ዙሉ”

“ባኣባጸ፡ ማሕፀኘጌ፡

ከመ፡

ዝንቱ

ዘነፍሰት።።”

ወዘጸጋንንት፡

ወዝብጢታት፡።

ያማሥኽ፡

ከመ፡

ጸጻምሮቶተመሙ፡'፡
ካስድያኣ፡”

ዘዙሉ፡

ዘኣጻንበሰ፡

ኣመ"

ዴደቅ፡ ወ[ዝብጠት፣ ነፍስ፡]። ንስክተ;” ጸርቹ፡ ወዝብጠት፡”" ዘዴክውንኝ፤ በቁትር፡ ወልዳ
ሰጸርቹ።። ዘስሙ ትባዕት።
19. ዝን፫፡። ውጻቱ፡። ጐልቁ;። ለ“ካስብሌል፡። ርኣሰ፡።
ሣማሐሕሳባ።

ዘጸርጸየዩ፡

ሰቅዱሰን፤

ey read ወበ.

Em. from AH: of a=, en.

8.

Fm

የጋ.ፎር፡

mm adds mRጽሕhፈi

«+ age
fF8k read ስhE.
sg

ሶበ፡።

9 omits.

በልፁል፡።

በ"ስብሐት፡

7 omits.

0g, ae/BRn0pnwy omit.

° n reads UH.

sm reads ATOAAR:

Otherwise take AH: hapH:
= sis roiagra.

read ያA0:;

ወስመ“

2 መ reads Tፈጥፉ፡

ቢያቃ።"

7 =a.

#2, B~en read AH:

ያ ትወልደ

0 m reads

መላኳ ሰብኣ
n # reads £30
smu.
9 reads Jሓyi ወቅዱሰ
ፀወ ጻድ" ወን".
5 gu. mh Bread Am.
4 m reads AN;
5 9 reads
በብዙ
15 ey read RAC
7 m omits.
#mFhifiInox,ab. # reads
በልዓ; ያ, ayc
ds £በAOL: All seem corrupt. Perhaps we should read ዴትA;
» g,% read DA.
"rm,
reads hስንድያኣi ። hሰድ.ያAi ። ክስያድ0; 4 ሰደ);
፣ ካሰድያዕዐ፡
። ክስፎያዕ፡
5-።9፣5 ከስድ.ያዕ፡
uag. gy readlH.
By omit.
235 Bn
omit.
5 0, % read An;
=“ 0 reads Ai
/ At:
emt binx,
fg, acdefhtloay read HiENY:
a, 5 HAY:
25,8,
m/w read Hብt:
ያ ወ፡ ዘብጠ፡
7 mL 2 reads qA hq}; which seems simply a scribes error.

fu read qAAA: YH: (1: 0.

8-5 qAባA: በ407;

and so 5, save that it adds ©

before በ.
5a. For HA’
reads HAY:
Clearly a dittography from the
earlier part of the verse. The preceding © connects directly with Wht:
DEE

read Jhስnታትi

9, ። prefix ©.

0 a, Bcdgslox,a,b.

B-Bedslox,a,B read ዝብ:

This and the next two words should be restored after Yi

kernuBpuvog.

Z omits.

i a,d/0y,a,

53 /u,in.

aeFhiin read OHYE:

9g read Ai

Cf. Ps. xci. 6 Basioviov

Scx ወ:

mm, gino AE:

05 LA:

5 9 reads H.

2» LA

Text = np (Hallévi) which should here have been rendered « charge, ‘function’;
or = SDB corrupt for batho = ‘law, « business (Beer),
54 9 reads ካሰበሌል፣ /,19

ከስብዜል፡ ። ካሰብጹስ፡
= 9, # aባd መዋዕል፣፤ ወርኣሰ፡
መሐላ
7 m reads OH.
5a.
ያ reads በልሁሳኔ፡
@. / omits.
n a. 8 reads gp;

36 F0u.
8 ልሁል፡

mh 8 read
5 F reads

14.

ከመ፡

ዝንቱ

ይቤሉ፡

ይርዓዴጃ፡፥

ዘበ"ሣቡኣጻ።

ሲ'ሚካዜል፡

ያርጳዮ።

1235

ዛናኛነ፡

መጽሐፈ፡

LXIX. 4-19.

ስመ፡“

ኣም፣ውኣቱ፡

ስም፡

ወማሐሳ።

15. ወዝንቱ:

ገዴሱ፡

ለዝ"

ሣቡጸ፣

ከመ፡።

ዴዝክርዖዎ፡

ኣለ፡

ጸርጸዩ።

ለውሱደ፡

ማሕሳባ፡።

ኣስመ፡

ጋያል፡።

በማሓላሳ፡፡

ሰብኣ፡
ውልጻቱ፡

ሹሉ
ወፀኒዕ፡

ወጸንበርሮ፡ ለዝ፡ ማሐሳ፤ ጸካኳ፡“ በጻዴሆሁ፡ ሰሲ“ሚካሌል።
16. ወጻሱንቲቱ፡፡ ኣሙንቲቱ፡ ሣቡጻቲ“ሆሁ፡" ለዝ፡ ማሓሳ፡ . . . . .
ወፀኒ0፡።

በማሐሕሳሆ፡

ወ"ስማይዴ፤ ትሰቅለ፡ ዘኣንበለ፡ ይትፈጠር

ዓሰም

ወጻስክ፡ ሲዓሲም፤ ቦቲ።።
17. ወም.ፎር፡። ትሰረረት፣ ሄበ;። ማይ
ወኣምኔ፤

ኀቡጻተ፡።

ኣምፍጥረት፡

ጸጺፎበር፡ ይመፀሉ፡።

ሳሕያን፡።

ማሇት

ዓለም፡ “ወኣስከ፤ ለዓሲም።"

18. ወበውኣቲ፤

ማሐሳ፡።

ትችፈጥረት

በሕር”

ወተመሠረታ;” ሲሰኙዜ፤ መዓኘ፥ ጸንበረ፡” ሳቲ፡ ኖዛ;
ወጺ“ችኘልፍ፡” ኣምፍጥረተ፡ ዓሰም፡ ወ።ኣስካከ፡ ለዓሲም።
19. ወበውኣቲቱ፡ ማሐሳ፡ ቁሳድዶ፡። ፀን0ት';"።

tain, m reads Hit: 5 ሽንቲ
። 8 aባባs ቅዱስ፤
s 0 reads PCR
8 reads CAFS
« m, en read ስሞ; / ስ
° 9 reads phi
Here all the
MSS. but Z9# make additions to the text. mu add ዝር: ሰውቱ: ስም: ኩይ:
ወሣቡኳ፤ ከመ; save that u# omits ይ:

For phi

a reads no’:

7 9 reads 0.
5 g reads JA;

8 adds ድርRድP: ለው:

ስም: SA

ወከመ:

/ ሰለውጻቱ ስም፤ ሣቡኣ፡

22, m/w, 8 read መሐላ:

9 ማሳ;

2 9 reads ACA

Ng reads 0WYE:

«# ANYE:

5 d omits next seven words,

# g reads NAO:

Rn; may be corrupt for 2; or

Other MSS, H.
vice versa,

©.

‘ያ. mu, 8 read መሐላ

«YEA
5 8 adds ቁዲዷስ፤

5 2.

mht

DANYE:

10 a, ag&y.

#, 9-58 read At

g omits.
7m reads WN.
Sggu. mt, Bg read ወጺY0: 4 805
9,5 omit.
20 # reads N&.C:
ag. 9,8 ቦቱ;
REI: Dp reads DIE CLS 2 PEE
IEE
5 m prefixes ©,
Fm, B-abefBnx. #u, beFhn read AAY:
a reads HAAY; and trans. after REC:
5 a, B-Bcf save that a prefixes ©.
ዕረ read ድመጽጻ፡ ያ ይመጽይ
5 amu, ae FBI.
mA];
Iya read
ሰግያዋን፡
ዕረx ባህያት፡ ሲሰሕያዋኽ
5 ሳህያ፤ (+ ለሕያዎን፤ ዕ.9). ። reads ልሁያት፡
and trans. after oy”.

7 From this point to &TረtYi AP;

2 reads ባሕር: ተሳረረት

ሰ፲ኙዜ፡ ዐቐማ፤ ወጸንበሪ፡ ሳቲ ዓቅመ፡ ኖባ፤፡ ወጺተሐልፍ፡ ኣምወሰና፡ ለዓለም
ወማዕበል፡
5 Corrupt for ወሲ = Spitey atrilv, Cf. Jer. v. 22.

rest of the verse.

0 m reads NYJበራi

reads Y5AE

ፕፈጥረት፣ ከመ፤ ትዳልፍ፡

= = reads ኣምትእዛዘ፡፣

m trans. Pp" after AY.

4 a, B-Bcu.

b reads AYO:

5 nb add
dg omits the

Fort A 3 n reads

= a 5-icnx.
<። A}0;

Sረnx ቁላያች፡

1256

መጽሕሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

LXIX,. 19~27.

ወቐቁመሙመ፡ ወጺ’ይትሕሐወሱ፡ ኣመካኖመ፡ ኣምዓሲም፡፡ ወጻስክ፣ ለዓሰም።
20. ወበውኣቲቱ፡ ማሐሕሳ፣ ፀሕዶ፤ ወወርሣ፣ ይፌጽሙ ምጠዋሮሙ፡
ወጺዩየሐልፉ፡፡ ኣምትጻዛክዞሙ፡ “ኣምዓሲም።
21. ወበውኣጻቲቱ፡ ማሕሳ፡ ክዋክብት ዴፌጽመሙ፡ ምሕዋሪሆሙ፡፣
ወጸስማቲሆመሙ፡፣ ይጴውዕ፡፡
ወ“የወሥአኣዎ;’ ኣምዓሰም፣፤ ወኣስክ፡ ሰዓሰም።

232. |ወክከመዝ፡ ሰማድ፡ ነፍሳቲሆሙ" ሰነፉሳት፡” ወ“ዙሎመሙመ፡ ። መንፈሰ“

ወፍናዋቲሆሙ፡።

ኣም ጎብራት፡ መንፈሳት።።
23. ወበህዩ፡ ዶትዓቅበ፡ ቃሱ፡። ሲነኮድዃደ፡ ወብርሃፉ፡
ሲሰመብረቅ። ወበህዩ; ዴትዓቁብ፡” መዛገብ በረ.ፎ፡ ወ።መዛግብተ፡። ጸስሐትያ፡ ወመዛኘብተ፡;
ኙጃ;

ወ“መዛንብት፡

ዝናም፡

ወጠል

24.

*ዙሱ፡

በቅፎመ፤ ኣፓዚጸ፡ መንፈሳኝ፡“ ወይሴብሑ፡። በዙሱ፡
ጸኰቱት፡፣ ዶኣቲ፡ ወየጸሹቱ፡”" ወዶሴብሑ፡ ወያሴዕሲ፡
ሲ“ዓሰመ፡ ዓሲም።)
25. ወዲኗቤሆመሙ፡።” ጸገ0;። ዝማሐሕሳ፡
ወዴትንቀቡ፡።” ቦ፲ቲ፡ [ወ] *“ፍናዊሆመሙመ፡ [ይትዓቀቡ፣]።
ወምሕዋራቲሆሙ፡ ዚዴደማስን።

ጻሱንቱ፡።

የጸምፉ፡

ወየጸዙቱ”

ጋይደሎመ፡።” ወሲሰዮመ።” በዙ
በስሙ” ሰጻንግዚጸ፡ መናፍስት”

26. ወከኖመ፥ ፍሥመሓ፤ ዓቢድ፤።
ወባረኩ፣ ወሰብሑ፥ ወጸልዐሱ፡፡

በኣንተ፡ ዘተክሥት፡ ሱመ“

ስመ፡” ሰውኣቲቱ፡ ወልደ"

27. ወነበረ፡ ኗደበ፡ መንበረ፤

ስብሕቲሆ፡

1 f omits.

* bc read AA;

ኣኝለ፡ ኣመሕያው።

9 reads LትLጽms

“reads PRA

s m omits. 0,8 add PAN; AA;
sri, a/y8/0a,b., m,pcdernx read Pሕዋሮm;
9,5 ምሕዋራቲሆs
7 0 omits.
* m prefixes ©. 9 reads £&P0:
° n reads
ክውምልጸዎ፤
"" 8። ra ነፍስት(ፓ “ቲሆሙ፡
nF reads AYEሰY'i 9 prefixes ©.
ፀወ

read Yፉሰት፡

5 a.

B reads OA

13 0, % read WN;

ESET,

መናፍስት፤ ኋ omits. ። Iፉሰትi
reads ወፍንዋቲሆs x adds Ar መንፈሳት
15 a. 8-5 read መፍፍስት፣
7 m9 read £ትዓዋብ; 5 adds መHዛብYi
” 9 read 2:
» 9 reads NYE
" m, ehzoxy read £39
= 8 omits.
“ ag/0yay
omit.
3 m omits.
“im. /reads NN; Ni
tt; Ami: 2, 5x rN
ኣሎንቱ፡

5-+። ወሸሎመሙ፡

ጳሙንቱ

gt abcqge read AWE:

amu, FBitino.

so rm/u. Other MSS. S&ስት;
27 / reads ዴሰብ
5 bረቷ ad ጸኰቴት
(e¥y
5 c reads Dቤሰt
0 FFBIRI»n0. mga, abcde read DATE:
5 9, un ስሞ
25 mu read መiፈሰት;
5
reads ዲ@Wy:
#0, abcegel

n reads A051

Other MSS. AY9;

to the dittography ዴት;

52.

Other NSS. OE:

5 9 reads YOY;
m Bracketed

greads Ny;

5 Introduced owing

as a dittography.

"Fa

omit:

9 reads 30:

XIX. a LXX. 2.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛ፡

157

ወርጳሱ፡፡ ሰዙኔ፤ ተውህበት ሎቱ ሰወልደ፤ ጻኝሰ፡ ጳመሕያው፡
ወያጋልፍ፡፡ ወ።ያማስን፡፡ ጋጥጻ፤፣ ኣም“ቅድመ፡፣ ገጸ ምድር
ወልሰሲ፡ ጸስሕትዎ፡ ሰዓሲም።
28. በሰናስል፤ ዶትጸሰፉ፡
ወበቢ“ማሣግበሮመሙመ፡

ዘ“*ሙስሪ፡ ይትዓጺጸዉሟ፡።

ወ።“ዙሱ፡።” ምግበሮመ፡፥ የሐልፍ፤ ኣም “ቅድመ
29. ወኣምይኣዜ፡። ዚ“"ይከውን፡ ዘ"ይማስን፡
ጻስመ፡ ውጻቲቱ። “ወልደ፤ ብኣሲ፡። ትችርጳዩ፤።
ወነበረ፡ ደበ; መንበረ

ገጺ; ም.ድፎር።

በስብሕቲሆ፡

ወዙቡ፡። ጸኩድ፤ ኣምቅ.ድመ፤ ፲፭; የሕልፍ
ወየሐውር ተወዴነፃፉ፡። ሰውጻቲ፡ ወልደ፤። ብኣሲ፤።
ወ“ይፀን0; በቅድመ፤ ኣግዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት፥።
ዝንቱ ውጻቲቱ፡ ምሳሰሴሌ፡። ሣልስ፡። ዘሄኖሕክ።
LXX. ወhኮኔ፡ ኣም ድሣረ“ሽ፡። ተለዓሰ፡ ስመ“ ሕያው “በኘቤሆ፡ ሰ“ውኣቲቱ፡። ወልደ፤ ኣኝሰ፡
ጻመጦሐያው፡ ወበኘበ;። ኣንፓዚጸ፡ መንፈሳት” ኣምኣጻሰ፡ የጋፎፉኗ፡ ደበ; የብስ።
2. ወተሰዓለ፤።

+ m, 8. Zu read CAN; 9/ CAM:
2 a. 8 reads ተውህበ;
5 » omits.
+ 8. a9 read AE
9 JAZ:
2 g,e omit.
‘78. mu read ዴማስ:
7 omits.
7 Bd. g reads JY but trans. it after "TA. Its text runs JA; ምቅ.
1ጹ፡ ገጥጻ፤ ምድር፤
4 reads ጋጥጻ
m/w omit DT.
5 EF BIR Inoxay omit.
say, BL
reads J&R: 8-5/8: A
ny omits.
1m, r0a5 read Rስሐትዎ
5 ey read ©.

5 m reads H0;

ዙሉ

"ey

o tri

omit.

Fmgu

1 g1AIA

prefix H.

1» mi, Bo.

Jceypp5x add 0.

#9 read

"mm reads H.

nm reads A.
1 m omits.
= a reads Hብaሲi OAk.E:
5 0b read HCA:
* 9g omits.
5 g reads WN:
5 g reads hi
Tah IIA I0DUpa
a reads O#IJC; and hence belongs to the same class.
Only #, SceBfPnx read
yl;
The reading in the text is hardly possible. መድIJ; may be a corruption

of some noun on which APNE: A:

ብAaሲ; is dependent.

If we accept the

reading of /and its supporters We must omit the @ and take FI£; as the subject of

የሐውር፡ ።ኳዛ ዴፀንዕ፡
Only Scan omit.

5 b omits.
ag.

Other MSS.

5 ያ,

read ብAሲኝ፡

é EN;

5 a,

0 a, ade/Ds8J10y.
Bg read HW

together with next four words.
5 2 reads hi
።# ምስ
0 በምሳ:
omit.
5 w omits.
5 mp8. ድ reads ቢበ; ሲ. ያ በ3በቢ. “ሰ.
% adds ብጻሲ
SL greads DJ; mu 5-0 030i 5 305
Other MSS. መé@&NY;
o / adds hw

dg omits

= e/hn
7 g omits.
mw,

198

መጽሐፈ:

ህኛኻ፡

LXX. 2 LXXL. 3.

በሰረገሳት። መንፈስ፡። ወወፀዕጸ፡ ስም። በማኣጻከሎሙ።
3. ወኣምይኣቲ፡ ዕለት
ዚ“ተሕሰብኩ፡። በማኣከሎሙ፡
ወጸንበረኒ። በማኣከሰ፡ ክልጹ፣፡ መንፈሳት፡፡ በማኣጻክለሲ።
መስዕ፡ ወዓረብ፡ በኘበ; ነቻጽ፡ ዘሕባሰ፡። መሳኳጻክት፡ ከመ፤ ይስፍፉ፣፥ ሲት፣ መኣ፤ ለሕፉ.ያን፡
ወሰጻ.ድቃን።
4. ወበህና፡ ርጵኩ፡፥ ጸበወ፡ ቁዶደምተ፡'’ ወጻፎቃኔ። ኣሰ፡ ጻምዓሰም፡
በውኣቱ፡ መካን፤ የጋ.ድፎፉ።
LXXL ወhy፡ ኣም.ድሣረዝ፡ ከመ ትችክበት፡፥ መንፈስዩ፡
ወትዐር7፤። ውስ ሰማያት
ወ“ርጺሕዎመ፡"፡ ሰውሱደመ፡። ለመሳኣክት፡ ቐዱሰን፡
ዴድከይደዲኗ፡" ፈዷበ፡ ሳህበ፡ ጻሳት
ወጸልባሰሙ፡። ጸዓዳ; |ወ"ዐጽፎመሙ፡|”
ወ=ብፉሃን፡። ገጾጀመ፡ ከመ፡ በረድ።
2. ወርጺኩ፥ ካእዜት፡ ጸፍሳባገ፡ ጻሳት፡
“።ወብርሃኔ፡ ዝኩ ኣሳት፥። ከመ፤ ያክንት ያበርህ

ወ።ወደቁ፡ በገጽዩ;። ቅፎመ፡። ኣግዚክ፡ መንፈሳት'።።

3. ወ“መልጸኻ፡” ሚካሌስል፡ [(ጀኢምጽርኣስ፣ መላእክት፡]። ጸጋዘ፤፦። እዴየ; ዘየማን

ወጸንሥመጸኒ፡ ወጸውፀጸኒ፡። ኘበ፡ ሺሹሱ፡ “ሣቡጻ፡
ወጸርጸዩኒ፡

ዙሉ፡።

ወ“ጸርጸዩኒ፡ ዙሉ”

ሣቡጻት፡።

ምሕረት

ሣቡጻት፡ ጽድቅ።

' ድ reads በሰረገሳት፣
9, » በሰረገሳ፡
2 u# reads መiንፈሱ፥
0,8 add ቅዱስ፡
s m reads Ni
9/ ስሞ;
9».
መ, 8-5 read ችተስሕሐብኩ፥
= ትሰባሕኩ፡
0 ትኸስሕትኩ፤
°
reads OAI0TL:
‘niu. Other MSS. መናፍስትi
ce omits.
‘anx.

B-nX read Rhበሳli

9,708 ቁደምት፡

9,705 read Ri

= 9 reads ወድቃ

"8.

nu read DY;

"9. £ reads ወትረ

m/w, 8 ትO0CT7;

a 0b, Bob omit.
™ reads CAS
5 m repeats. / reads Nt.
1 bcg0oXyy
omit.
7 dg reads Yt:
» inserts AንH: before hn".
5 ain. mm, 8 read
RAባሲሆመሙ፥
5 reads 3X5
7 omit, 1 bracket PORE; as a dittography.
B adds L. See preceding note.
= 0b omit.
Sgucphoyab. mgt, ape/BRPnX
read ወብCYII
4 OብCyY:
A aenw omit.
5 # omits.
25 dy» omit.
7 m,y read p.m;
=Em/u. Other MSS. መ6ENስትi
avx omit.
8 trans.
before AAR:
1 Bracketed as a gloss.
5 mg prefix ©.
5 m reads

በጻዴሆሁ፡

/ በኣዴti

= 4) read RAL:

= 8 omits through hmt.

reads

ዳቡጻት፡ ዘ;
5 This line and the next (=kai €Betgé ot rdyra Ti tuugrilpta Tog eAéovs,
kai €Beugé uot mdvra Ta vrrilpta ils Bexatovuns) may have been alternative renderings

of pHyn sግnbis 25 NHN.

At any rate we should expect a tristich.

5 8 omits.

FERNS,

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

129

4. ወጸርጸዩኒ፡ ዙሉ፡ ሣቡኋ1፡ ጸጽናፈ። ሰማይ
ወሉ መዛግብ ከዋክብቫ፡ ወብርሃናት'፣ ሎሙ
ኣምንበ፡፡ ወዕዶ፡ ሲገጸ፤ ቅዲሳን።

5. ወከበተ፤ መንፈስየ |ወሄኖኳ፡|፡ ውስተ፣ ሰማየዩ። ሰማያት'።
ወርጺኩ፡ በህየ [ማአክለ፣ ዝዙ፡፡ ብርሃን|" ከመ፡ ቦቱ፣ ዘ'ይነጌገደቅ፡ ኣምኣብ፤" ጸስሐት።ያ፡
ወ“ ማኣከሎመ፡ ሲ“ኣሙንቱ ኣበን፡፡ ልሳናት; ጻሳጎ፣፥ ሕያው
6. ወርጻጳዩች፡" መንፈስዩ፡ ጸጽውዶ;” ዘየጸውዶ፡ ሰውጻቱ፡ ቤ1፡” ኣጻሳት፣።
ወ።ጻምጸርባዕቲ፡

ጸጽናፊሆ፡።

ሰለውልኣቱ፡ ጸፍሳኘ፡”

ምጻ;

ኣሰቱ;።

ሕያወ፤።

ወየጸው.ፎዎ፤ ሰውኳቲቱ፤ ቤች'።
7. ወጸውፉ፡” ቡራፌኘ፡” ወ“ኪፉቤን፡። ወ“ጽዙፋኒን፡።
ወ።ጻቡ፡ ጸሙንቱ፤ ጳሰ፡ ዚይነውመሙ፡
ወዩዓቐበ፡ መንበረ፡ “ስብሕት፤ ዚጸሁ።።
8. ወርጺኩ፡ መሳኳጻሕት፤ ጻሰ፤ ዚዶትሰቁ፡።”
ጸጻሳባፈ፡፡ ጸኣሳባፍ፡። ወት ኣልፊገ፡ ትጻልፊት፡፣
ናየጸውድያዎ፤ ሰውኣቱ፡ ቤነ
ወ።ሚካሌል፡ ወፉፋሌዬስል፡” ወገብርዜስል፣፡ ወፉፉሌል፡”

ወመላኣጻሕት፣ ቁዲሰን፤ ኣለሲ;” መልዕልት፤ ሰማያት“
ዴበውጹ፡ ወዴወፀጹጽ፡። በውኳቲቱ፡ ቤት'።
1 9 omits.

5 bx read HI:

preceding word in acc.

5 9,5 read pfs

«i reads AA

a.

8 mi;

F omits.

m reads

5 Bracketed as a gloss

explanatory of ¢. It first appears as #7; in Zu, as Li #n; in m, as Ak:
¥#7N; in !, and as Ayn; in 3.
mn omit
mn adds UNF
9 trans. Hh

before ማAnA:
1 Bracketed as an explanatory gloss of Uti
1 0, a read AምAብi
s # reads ስቲያ:
c omits.
8 reads MANA:
u reads atንE:
"emg
read A}; 8 RA
7 reads AA
sm prefixes H. *a reads DCA
ag,
The suffix here expresses the article.
25 u,b read ANY
5 0,8 omit.

9, 8 read Ri
Em/,a. 9, 8a read @Yi
= m reads REAL: oxa Rae: 9 omits

preceding numeral.
5 g/0,ay read &ATi
“g/u. 9 reads ም
m,8 aH
7 fu. Fmg,8 read AY:
5L mug read hpi
m prefixes H. 9 reads
ሕያዋን
ag. gacd/iRI0ab read DARው&S bnx ወበ0ውዱi
«5 ወtOው#!
=u. m2 9 read RELY:
a0. 9,18 read ኪፉቤል፡
nag. 9, Bread rራፌል፡
5 B omits.
#9 reads HAL: 4 ስብሐቲሁ:
= an. 8 read RY 2A: m adds BA:

%gmu.
omit.

0,8 read RAAYY; / omits.
Tem,n.
gu omit. den trans. after PICEA:

place.

“ne trans. before 'IACRAY

HA:

9 adds © before next word.

#e8 omit.

gt, B~n read BAA]
= bcnXy
Fort 8 reads rR: in second
nu reads ሰ;

*# 9 adds በውስተ: ወድዴወፀgw:
5

Ai

RA;

180

መጽጠፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

LXXI. 013.

9. ጦወወፅጽ፡ ኣምኔ፤ ውልኣቱ፡ ቤነ
መጦሚኻጴእ፡

ወፉፋዴል፡፡ ጦገብርሌስል፡ ወፈኒዴል፡፡

ወብዙጋን፤

ቅዷሰን;፡ መሳኣኳት፡፡

ኣለ፡ ጾእቦመ፡፥ ጐልቁ።፣

10. ወምስሴሆመ፡ ርጻሰ፡ መዋዕእ።፡
ወርጳቡ፡ ኮኔ; ከመ፤ ፀምር፤ ጸዓዳ፡ ወ'ንጽሕ፡
ወልብሱቡ፥ ዘ"ጺዴተረፐኮም።
11. ወወደቂ፡ በገጽሂ
ወዙሴ፡። መጋየና፤ ተመስወ፡
ወመንፈስ; ተወለጠ
ወጸራሣግኩ፡

በቃል

በመንፈሰ፡

ጋይል፡

ዓቢይ፡. .

ወባረኩ፡፡

ወሰባሕኩ፡"

ወጸልዓልኩ።

12. ወጻልኩ፡፡ በረክት፡። ኣሰ፡ ወፀኳ፡"። ኣም" ጸፉየዩ፡ ኮና” ሠመሙራት፡። ቐድመ፤። ዝኩ
ርኣሰ፡ መዋዕል።
13. ወመጽጸ፡ ውጻቲቱ፡ ርጳሰ፡ መዋዕል፡ ምስሰለ፡ ሚካሌል፡ ወፉፉሌል፡።
ወገብርሌል፡ ወፋኒጴል፡። ጸጻሳፍ፡።” ወ“ሻ'ጻልፊት፡። መላኣኻት፥። ኣለ፡ ጸልቦመ፡፥ ጐልዬ።።
1 9 reads DRO

smu.

bl3 omit.

2 mg, BceBnox,a trans. after

ወIገብርሌል፡ against 2, af IRI». abcdox,a omit @ before £4".
# a, a omit.
2 mw, mw omit.
5 m omits.
7 am, &. Other MSS. AY
5 eB»
read
መሐባi
[5 omits.
gy omit.
nf omit. m, Xa read what follows as RYE".
= 9 reads PWN: zw omits.
5 Something seems lost.
1 9 reads በፈnp; oa omit.
1? 9, # read ወሰባበወጨኻዎ፡
i at / reads DHhs 8 pA:
Ja x BX Men:
5 gu, be dek. PU FBtInXSD read DBA: m, o0,a DOR:
1» gu, 7h read AF;

nm

BF

gu, fread hi

9 reads Pei

5 g/u, B trans. after ICRA;

against £m.

make the following repetition: 8. mA;

ወዴበውጽ፡ (7 ois ወዴበ") ወይዴወፀጽ፥

emg

tu, B read በ.

B-X omit initial ©.

5 Here mg

p&ሰY: a: POA;

ሰማት; (ሰማ 7)

9. ኣምሃ ውኣቲ፡ ቤጎ፣ ወሚካሌስል፡፣ ወፉፋጵል፡

ወገብርሌል፡ (7 trans. or" 1") Ptr: (£ omits O&” and here the repetition in
ፃ ካds) ወብዙጋኃን፣ ቅዱሰን ኣሰ፡ ጸልቦመ፡፥ ጐልቁ፡ 10. ወምስሌሆሙ፤ ርኣሰ፡ መዋዕል፡
ወከ ርጸሱ፥ ከመ፡ ፀምር፡ ጸዓዳ፡ ንጺሐ፡ ወልብሰ፡ ዘጺደተረጕም።
11. ወወደቁ፡ በገጽዩ፡
ወዙ

ሥጋሂ፡ ትመስወ፤

ወመንፈስዩ፡

ትወለጠ፡

ወጸራሣኩ፡

በቃል፡ ዓቢዶደ፡ በመንፈሰ

ጋይል

ወባረኩ፡ ወሰባሕኩ፡ ወጸልዓልኩ፥
12. ወኣእኩ፡፣ በረከት ኣለ፡ ወፀጾ፣ ኣም፤፡ ጸፉ; (ከere the
repetition in mm ends) hy መራ
በቅ.ድmመi Hh CAሰi መዋ0ል፡ መጽ: ኣቱ

ርኣበ፡ መዋዕል፡

ምስሰ፡

ሚኻካሌል፡

ወፉፋፉጴል፡

ወገብርጹል፡

ወፋኒሌል፣፡

In the above

repetition in £m? observe the loss of three words afer DOORS

(ver. 8) through hmt.

and the omission of © before j&.h; (1X; mm) (ver. io) as in dy.

See note 1o above.

Mm omits together with next five words,

B prefixes ©.

Bg6FBIR IoaD omit.

72. g/u,B read YAY;
F ጐልቁ።
8 ሦልእቁ፡

5 mw, a omit.

5 a, BF

ኣሳ

read ልቅ

RINT XX,

L,

14. ወመጽጸ፡

ውጻቲ

ጋኃቤዩ፡

መጽሐፈ፡
ወበቃሰ፡

ሄኖ

ጸምገኒ፡

191

ወድቤሲኒ፡

ጸንተ፡ ውኣቱ፡ ወልደ፤ ብጻሲ፡
ዘተወሲድከ፣

ሰ’ጽ.ፎቹ፡

ወጽድቹ፡

ሳዕሴከ፡ ኘደረ፡

ወጽ.ፎቁ፡ ሰርኣሰ፡ መዋዕል፡ ጺይጋ.ፎገክ።
15. ወድቤሰኒ፡ “ይጴውዕበ፡ ሰከ፡፣ ሰሳመ፡፡ በስመ፡፡ ሰንሰም፡፣ ዘይከውን
ሓኣስመ፡" ኣምህዩ፡ ወፀጸ፡ ሰባም፤ ኣምፍጥረቱ፡ ዓሲም
ወከመዝ ይከውን ሲሰክ፡;። ሲንሰም፤ ወሰዓሰመ፡፤ ዓሲም ።
16. ወዙ
ምመስሌክ፡።

የሐውር፡"

ሄደበ፡ ፍኖትከ፡”

ይከውንኘኝ፡ መጋ.ፎሪሆመሙ፡"

ኣንዘ፡፡

ጽፎቅ፡

ወምስሴሌክከ፡

ዚዶጋ.ፎገከ፡

ለዓለም

ዝፍሎሙ፡

ወጻምኔከ፤ ዚጺዴች'ሴሰዩ፡ ሰዓሰም፤ “ወሰዓሰመ፤ ዓሲም።፣
17. ወከመዝ ይከውን፡ ተኘ፡ መዋዕል፡ ምስሰ፡ ውጻቱ፡ ወልደ፡ ኣኝሰ፡ ኣመሕሇያመ፡
ወ።ሰሳም፤ ይክከውን;። ሰጻ.ፎቃን፡።” ወ“ፍኖት፡ ርቱዐ; ሰጻድቃ፣፡
በስመ፡ ኣግዚጾ፡ መንፈሳት ሰዓሰመ፤ ዓሰም።።
LXXII.
ጀኔ:

መጽሐፈ፡

“ቢበ;

ጸውራቷሆሙ፡

ሚጠት”

ሥመልጣኖመሙመ፡።

ኣሰ፡

ብርሃና

ወበበ

ጸርጸዩኒ፡

ሰማይ፤

ዘመኖመ፡

ጽርዜሌል፡“

ኔጀ።በክመ፡”

ሀለዉ፡።

በበሕዘቢሆመሙ፡።

ሄጀበበ“ስሞመሙመ፡።።

ወሙሳዳፒቲሆመ፡።

ወ።በበ፤።

መልጸኽ፡

ዘሀሉ፡

ዘውኣቲ

ቅዱዷስ፡

ምስሌና፤

መራiሆመ
ወሉ; ። መጽሐሕፎመሙ፡ በከመ” ውኣጻቱ፡ ጸርጸዩኒ፡ ወበ“ከመ፡ ዙሱ፡ ዓመ
ዓሰም” ወልስከ፥ ለንሰም፡ ኣስከ" ዶይትችገበር፡ “ፃብር፡ ጋኗደስ፡;"። ዘዴነብር፡ ኣስከ ሰ3ለም።

+ w omits.

9,13 add ARN:

se, dg omit.

* m reads RውዓNi

I

apcFRINX.,

ARው0:i

mg, dehsi0vyay read 0.

here = Boilrerai ov eipilwly which i5

a bad rendering of bio 15 Nግp: cf. Jer. xxxiv.8; Test. Dan.wv. 9 (8).

s mg read ሰላ;

¢ wu omits. » adds AIHA: መናፍስ;
7 omits.
ss reads H
°s adds ሰላ;
0 # reads ©. eh omit.
1 9 reads RN:
wu RወgAi
os omit.
= 9 reads
ወሸሉ፡
8-2/5 add ይከውን፤ ወ, ።/8 add ዘይከውን ወ.
ug reads IEC:
15 g reads Eh;
5 #8. mg read AY: uD.
1 adds Ami
= bcvwxy
prefix ©.
11 F0u.
my, ade FhIRIn0ab read AVP
cx AEC
" 5, #add ይከው
1 gy omit.
5 reads DA
5 n omits.
= prefixes ©.
5 g,c omit next three words through hmt.
5 Fu. m reads &ኖችYi CትO. 5 tH:
CEO: This last is obviously a correction of the bad syntax. AXE}; seems wrong.
7 Fmt
Other MSS. ፍስት
5 u# adds RZ};
25 » reads ተ
A.
a=. mo IB read Hho;
Xmf, 8. gu read UN;
5 m reads በበ Hቢሆa;
5 9 reads OBB:
5 my, 8. gu read Nw;
5 # reads DAዳALሆ፡
SI
Boas. #,0,ay read RራሌA: 9 omits.
7 008-5. mn, 5 read DR
reads H.

5 # reads NA;

so aw prefixes ©.

ሣ ድ9 read ብረ »ጋዲበ፡

1395

መጽሐፈ፡

2. ወዝንቱ

ትኳዛዝ፡ ቁዳማዩ፤

ዘብርሃናት፡፡

ዛኛካ፡
ፀሕዶደ፡

LXXII. 2-17.

ብርሃን

መኻጹ፡

በ‘ጋዋሣወጦ፡ ሰማይ፡፡

ኣኋሰ፡ መንገለ; ጽባሕ፡ ወምዕራቢሆ፡ በ‘ጋዋሣወ፡ ሰማፎዴ፡ ዘምዕራብ።
3. ወርጳኩ፡ ስሰ፡
ኃዋሣጦ;፡ ኣሰ: ኘበ;" ድወፀኣ፡ ፀሐድ፡ ወ“ስሰ፥ ጋዋሣወ፡” ኣሰ; ኘበ፡ የንርብ፡ ፀሕይ፤።
ወወርሣ፡

በውኣተን፡

ድመርሣዎሙ፡

ኃዋሣወ፡፥ ድሠርቅ፡

ጃበጽባሕ፡

ወየንርብ፣፡

ወሄ“በምዕራበ፡"

ወመራኘኒሆመ፡

ፀሐሕዶዴ፡”

ሰክዋኻብት፡

ወሸሎሙ፡

ምስሰ፡

ጀጀ“ልም.ፎሣረ፣

ርቱዕ; ወመሰኳው፡ ብዙኃነ" ጳኣምየማኒ፡ ወኣምፀጋመሙመ፡ ሲዝኩ፡ ጋዋሣው፡።”

ዴወፀኣ፡

ብርሃን;

መሱኣ፤

ኣሰተ።። ዘያበርህ”

ዓቢድ፡።

ዘስሙ

ፀሕይ፡

ወያውዒ።።

ወበበ

ከመ፡። ኳበበ፡።

ኣለ
ካልዙ፡

4. ወቐዋዳሚ፤።

ሰማይደ፤ ወ።ዙሲ፡።

5. ሰበረገሳተ;። በኝበ፡ የ3ርፃ?፡” ነፋፉስ፤ ዶነፍሣ፡።

ወዩዓርብ፡ ፀሐሕደ፡ ጻምሰማዴ፣ ወዴደገብኣጻ፤ ኣንተ፡ መስዕ፣ ከመ፡ ይሖር፡። ምሥራቁ፡።
ወይዴትመራሣ፤ ከመ፡ ዶበኳ፡። ዝኩ” -ኖሣት፡። ወበርህ፡ “በ18; ሰማይዴ።።
6. ከመ*ሽ፡።

ድወፀኳ፡ በወርሣ፡ ቀዳማዩ” በ"ኖሣት፡ ዓቢይ" |ይወፀኳ፡|“ ጻንት፥ ይጻቲ፣ ራብዕት፡“ |ኣልዙ፡
ጋዋሣው፡ ፮; ጻሰ፡ መንገሰ፡ ምሥራቁ ፀሕዴ]።“*
7. ወ“በ’ይጻቲ፡ "ኖኝግ፡ ራብዕ“ “ጻን
ሓምኔሃ፡። ዴወፀኳ፡“ ፀሕይ፡ በወርሣ፤ ቁቀዳማ፡። ባሂቲ። ዓምመፉ፡ ወካክልሌ፡ መሳክወ፡።
ርሣዋት፡” ዘኳምኔሆን;” ዴይወፀኳ፤ ሳህብ፡” ሶበ፡ ዴትረሕዉ፡። ጳም።ክዝመኔ ዚጸሆሙ።።

B~eBn add ውጸቱi

“8. a reads HAብCYSY; perhaps rishily.

° 9 reads ብCYSY

OጽBi
omits.
4 a omits, and makes JP acc. loci.
° g omits.
“mB.
au
read H. 9 omits.
7 9 reads POራቢሆPs
«9 readsH. / omits.
? mu,8. Z9/read
Jዋሣመ; 7 omits next six words through hmt.
9 omits. a omits AAS and next five
words through hint,

read JPA

nu a,n.

B~N read Ai

15 @ omits.

1 B omits.

5 g prefixes ©.

0 mfg.

7 Z prefixes ©, w omits.

0 8 reads PAY
Ht00:
read ሰት

15 9 reads B.

= e reads DRE:

=m adds i

#u,0 omit.

5 ru read HበCy;

» adds በበሥመርዓተመሙመ፡

= 9 reads ብCYSYi
# £9/0u.

5, B-2.

my

F9u read በም0ራ
15 g reads በብWY;

“£.

Other MSS.

m,fel8 read WAY:

“ny

5 0 reads DB

50 B reads BCP;

Sty

read AJAY; g omits. Jy trans. &Y before hi
am, Bie. m,B-Dt read ሑር:
53 £, a read (+Y1A; a) ምራ:
8 adds Ji
a8. #reads Hrs
gu.

# reads ZPDY: ug, 8 AY
read 0£i

Bx omit,

= 0aomit

Bracketed as a dittographic intrusion.

by prefixing @.
explanatory gloss.

= 6 ads ሣት

gu read pA

5 7 have bracketed this phrase as an

eB adapt it to its context by prefixing Aan

aefFn hn trans. BPI

8. dg omits YIN;

"8-D

B sought to make it grammatical

a 3 trans.

5 gy trans.

before

Aah

gTeads

YOON: and trans. before APY; u omits.
#7 g reads pA:
ag. 9, ae/ Brno
read መሰM®i bcgiowxyay Jዋግi
“aoa. Boa read CግOYi
"9, s read
ዘaምኔሆP
5 g reads AVበ; AሰYi 9 omits next four words.
= B-Bhደab.
a, Bay read Rችረሐው

35 iu reads Hor;

LXXIL. 8-13.

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛሣ፡

1398

8. ሶበ፡ ዴሠርቅ፡ ፀሐይ። ኣምሰማይ፡ ይወፀኣ፡ ኣንት። ይኣቲ፡ “"ኖሣት፡ ራብዕቫ።፡ ሠሳሳ፡፡
ጽበሐ፡ ወበራብዕትነ፡፡ 'ኖሣጎ፡ ጻንተ፡፣ ምዕራብበ፡ ሰማዶዴ፡ ርቱዐ፣ ይወርድ።
9. ወበኣማንቱ
መዋዕል፡

ጓኘውሣ፡’

ጽባሕ።

ዕሰ"

ጻምዕሲት፡

10. በውጻቱ፡።

ወተችጋጽር፡

ሌሲኝ፡፥

ፀሰሻ፣ ጓኘውሣ፣ |ካዕበተ፡።]

ጳምሌሊት፡።

ዕለት፡።“

ኣስከ፡

ሓምሴሲት፤

ሠላሳሰ፡

*ፓስዕቱ፡

ኣደ: ወሻዝውን፤ 0ሰት፡ ጥንቁቁ ዓሠርች፡" ክፍሰ፡ ወችክውን፣ ሴሊት፡። ሰመንቱ" ነፍለ፡
ጥንቁቅ።”
11. ወድወፀኣ፡ ፀሐይ፤ ኣም“ዝክቱ። ራብዕ;። "ኖሣኝ፡ ወየዓርብ፡ በራብዕት፣።
ወዴገብኣኳ፡ ውስተ ጋምስ፡;። ኖኝኝ፡። ኣንተ ጽባሕ፤ ሠባሰ፡። ጽባሐ፡። ወደወፀኣ፤ ኣምኔሃ፤”
ወሂዓርብ፡ ውስ ጋምስት፣” ኖሣት።
12. ወ።ጸ"ቓሃ፡ ይነውሣ፡። ዕሰ ተሕልዜ፡ተ።
ሓaደ፡ ወትክውንኝ፤ ዕሰኝ፤ ዓሠርት፣ ወጸሐደ፡። ክፍሰ፡ ወተሐጽር፡ ሴሲጎጓ፣ ወትክውን፤ ሰብዓተ”
ኻፍሰ።
15. ወዴገብኣ፡። ጽባሐ፡” ወዴበውልኣ፡። ውስተ ሳ.ፎስት;። ወዶወፀኳ፡። ወዩዓርብ፡

1 im, B~o0., aim, 0 omit.
2 m read Nm;
3 B trans. For ራብOY: I, SE
rad ራብዒኝ፣
‘mt
ouB:
2 m9 read ጽባሕ
5 bX read
ወበራብዒት፡
7 e reads Ami
s Z omits.
2 mm reads Ji
“55 ደiው4;
0 9 reads መዋ0AN: 0AY;
u
ads ኣጸስከ፡ ሴሲ
5 aL # 8 read ወበዴAaቲ:
5 An interpolation.

Its meaning is ‘twice as much, as in verses 14, 26, and it

cannot be so used here.
from the clause in mt, 8,

ካዕበ]

This interpolation led to the extrusion of +hስዓY; a:
sm reads ONY;
ss trans. after 0AY; and reads AምOAY

# m reads HOAY:

# ኣaም0AY 001;

5 £. gu read HAE: (AE: 9).

Al other MSS. omit.
See note 13.
The ninth part = the ninth part of the
whole day. During six months the day grows longer and the night shorter each

month by eth. Hence the entire difference each month amounts to JFsths or ath
of a day. Flemming transposes the phrase before 0AY; making it dependent on
u0በY:; and renders it ‘um das Doppelte eines Neuntels’; but this rendering is
impossible grammatically, and if it were right in grammar, it would be wrong in

sense.
15 Fm read 0AY:;
7 Fmt gu, 8 read x.
5 29 read Yi
aes
trans. before hoi;
nt
m reads ሰበoYE: gu,BE.
0 a. B omits.
nag. 9 reads YE: acfFBstinpvw AL: Dcgoxa Wh;
5 ag, Bcgox,
9, B-Bcdox,a ራብ0Y
5 9, B-Bረgxa add ሣት
at FBiI0DX a.
u, acdetn read »ምስት'i 8 »ምስቱ;
5 Z omits rest of verse through hmt.
Fmt

w,lB read Ma.

5 0, Bp/o0,ay read »ምhስ፡
@6FhRnB read YH

9 omits,

We should have RE; or 8.

Other MSS. &.

»

Acc, Of motion towards.

read DIA:

Tm

read Ri

9 omits.

5 a omits.

/ Jምሲትi Zn add ወ2ምስትi
” bcg/op xyes omit,
= a. 8 reads Eg 1 have obelized the word as corrupt.
See ver. 18.

reads PወፀgAi

£ reads hi

5 m reads Neስቱi

5m.

Other MSS. Yog.

ph

o ወትIብA:

8 adds ፀhE:

0X;

Other M55. ለጽ;

gi.

/inova ሰድስ፡

7, 8 add Z4Y;

i,

194

መጽሐፈ:

ህሄኛኻ፡

LXXI. 1310.

በ“ሰድስት፡፡ "ኖሣት፣ ሠሳሰ። ወጀ’ጽበሕ፡፡ “በጻንት፡ ተጻምርተ፡ ዚጸሃ።፡
14. በ'ይጻቲ
ዕሰ ጓንውሣ፡ ዕሰትነ፡ ኣምሴሲሊት፣ ወችከውንኽ፤ ዕለት፡፡ ካዕበኘ፣ ሴሲት፣፥ ወትክውን፣ ዕለት"
ካፍሰ፡ ፲ወ፪; ወተጋጽር፡። ሴሊት፡። ወችትከውን፤ በድስት" ክፍሰ።
ዐፀሐደ፤ ክመ ትሕጽር፡ ዕለት" ወነኒሣ፡።” ሴሲጓ፡። ወይገብጻ፡"

ወ“ ይበውጻi።”

ውስተ፣

ጽባሕ”

16. ወሶሰበ፡

ሳ.ፎስት፡።

"ኖሣኝ፡

ወ“ይሠርቅ፡።

ተፈጻመ፡፤

ሠሳባሰ፡

ጽባሕ፡።

ኣምኔሃ፡

ትሕፀፀ፡

15. ወዴትንሣ፡
ፀሕይዴ፣ በ"ጽበሕ፡
ወየዓርብ፡። ሠሳሰ፡።

ማዓልነ፡

“ኳፍለ፤

ጸሕሐዶደ፤።

ጥንቁፃ፡ ወትክውን፡ ዕለት ዓሠርገ፡ ወጸሕደ፡ ክፍሰ፣፡ ወሴሲሊት፣ ሰብዓተ።”
17. ወይወፀል፡
ዐሐደ፡ ኣም ምዕራብ፡ “ኣምዶይኣቲ፡ ሰድስት ኖሣት፡” ወዩየሐውር፡ ምሥራቁ” ወይሠርቹ፡
በጋምስት፡።

"ኖሣት፡። ሠሳሰ፡።

ጽባሕ፡።

ወዩፃርብ፡

በምዕራብ

ካዕበ”

“ኃምስች፡

"ኖሣጌ፡”

ኣንተ” ምዕራብ።
18. በ።ዴኣኳቲ፡ ዕሰነ፡” ትፕሐፀፀ፡ ዕሰት።” ተኻልሌት፡ተ" ክፍሰ፡
ወችክውን፡ ዕለት“ ዓሠርተ ክፍሰ፡ ወሴሊት፡ ሰመን ክፍለ።
19. ወ“ዴወፀኣ;” ፀሕይ፡
ኣምይኣቲ፡

ኃምስት፡።

ወ“ይሠርቅ፡።

1 m reads ስድስቱ
omits.

ኖሣግት፡“

ወ“ዓርብ፡።

"ኖሣጓ፥

በኣጻንተ፡።

በራብዕት፡።

5 EN:

*# reads ጽhi

በጋኃምስት፡"

-ኖሣት፣

ኣንት፤

ምዕራብ

ትጻምርጋቲሃ፡።

ኣንቱ፡”"

“ሠላሳሰ፡

ወጸሕዲ

e omits next word.

=m omits. 9 reads Ahi

° 9 prefixes 0. m omits.

a

° m,bczox,ab read LAW:

76-7.
reads ©. FB 0.
s mu, B. gf omit.
? # reads 0AY፡; ያ ad ሲት
ak& omit together with next three words through hmt.
» g reads 0AY; ¢ omits.
nu my read SwCE(Y:i/): OnAሌE (YY): 8 trans. before eA
5 9 reads DY;
5 #9 read bሲY
# 9 omits.
» mf8. #Z9u read TRC:
9 adds ከ:
16 Z reads 0AY;

7 8. a reads YJው4;

15 9 read ሲቲ

15 B. a reads

ትገብኳ፡
0 Fg}. Other M55. A.
1 a gives the verb in the 3rd fem, sing., B in
the 3rd masc. sing.
= m g/ read Nh;
5 B, a reads ተሠርi
cx add ፀhE;
4 0 omits. eh read 0A.
5 reads ጽበhi
# omits next four words through hmt.
256 @ omits.

eh read በ8.

ካፍ

5 mt B add Mai;

af hskn. # reads በ»ምስYi

7 , c read ጽበሕ፤

55 su omits.

» በ»ምስቱi

next eight words through hmt.

5 a,

B reads pneሰi

a reads በምሥራቹ

90. Scdgsioxas በJምNi

# £9# read ጽhi

* 9 reads Oli

adds

i

sr omis
nm.

Acc. of blace where. £9 read 2h; (9 om.) 415 / በ»2ምስት; "ኖት =, 8 በጋምስ፡
2",
5B. mg read በA}Yi ። 0. = 9 reads ©. /ወቢ.
9 omits.
1 have
obelized this word as corrupt. The day increases or decreases only by one part. We
should read Ahi or E. See note 32 on p. 133.
Ng
OIE
Ra PINES

the verb in the 3rd fem, sing.
fun. #9 read Dh; which 9 trans. after PAY
In, ፀ~ ግምስ፡
# r reads "PAY; g omits.
5 reads H.
“Eiu,n. m reads
g/ read
Srm,8.
በራብዒት
read
Bኳ
ሣ
በጋምስቱ፡ ያ በጀ. 5 በጋምስ፡
ሲጻንገ፡ ። ሰ.
5 a, Breads YAምCYi LAY: a add a dittography (2 A)ራብ0Y;
ሣት; ጓንት; በጽበሕ፤ ። adds only the last two words.
0 aL #'8 omit.

LXXII. 109~26.

መጽሐፈ፡

ህሄኛኻ፡

185

ጽባሕ ወየንርብ፡ በምዕራብ።
20. በይጻቲ፡ ዕለት።። ይትዓረይ። ማዓልት፡ ምስለ፡
ሴሲት፡ [ወይክውን፣ ዕፉዩ፡|፡ ወትከውን ሴሲት፣ ተችስዓ1፡ ክፍሰ። ወማዓልት።ኒ፡፡ ተስዓተ
ካፍሰ።

21. ወይወፀዕኳኣ፡ ፀሐይ፤ ጳምድኣቲ፡

በጽባሕ’

ወዴወፀኣኳ፤

በ“ሣልስገ፥

በ*ሣልስት፡። -ኖሣች።
አምሴሊት፤ ጓገውሣ፡፡
ሲሷት፡

ዐሠጋርች፡

ዐፀሐይ፡፣

ኣጸምይኳቲ፡”

ኖሣ1፡"

22. ወበይጻቲ፤
ወትሐጽር፡ ዕለ

ኳፍሰ፡

ጥንቁቁ፡

ወከመዝ፡

ዩ0ርብ፡

ሠሳሰ፡።

ጽባሕ”

“ወ ይገብኣ፡፣

ወዩዓርብ፡።

በምዕራብ

ዕለኝ፥ ገገውሣ፤ ሴሲት፡ ጻምዕለት፡። *ወሴሊት፡
ኣምዕሲነ፥ ኣጻስከ፤ ሠሳሰ፡ ጽባሕ” ወትከውን

ወ“ማዓልት፡

ሣልስተ፣።

ኖሣት፤፣

*ሃወይገብኳ፡” ውስኘ፡” ምሥራሕ፡
ጽባሕ፤፡

"ኖሣቫ፡ ወየጎርብ፡ በ'ምዕራብ፡

ሰመንተ፡"

ወ’የዓርብ፡”"

ኳፍለ።

23. ወ።ይዴወፀዕል፡”

በ“ሣልስት፡።

"“ኖሣት፡

በዐፀረብ፡

ወ።ይወፀኣ፡። ውስገ፥ ካልኣ፡ "ኖሣት፡ ኣምሥራቅ፡። ሠሳሰ፡

በ“ኳልጻኘ።

"ኖሣት;።

በምዕራበ፡

ሰማይዶ

24.

ወበ ይኣቱ

ዕሰት፡” ችክውን፡ ሴሲች፡ ዓሠርች፡ ወጸሐደ፡ ኳፍለ፡ ወዕሰት፡ ሰብኝተ፡” ኣፍሰ።
25,
ወ“ደወፀኳ። ፀሕይደ፡። በይኣቲ፡ ዕሰጎ፥ ጳምይኳቲ;። ኻእኣት፡ "ኖሣት፡። ወ።የዓርብ፡።
በምዕራብ፡

በ“ኻካልኣ፡።

"ኖሣ1፡።

ወ።“ይገብጻ;።

ወጀጽባሐ፡።

ወ።ዩንርብ፡።

“በጸሕሐቲ፡

ኖሣ1፡።

' ድያ rad ሠwላሰ፡ ወጸሐደ፡ ጽባሐ፤፡
but aሪf/ 88

“በ ምዕራበ፡

5, a £0;

“በጸሐቱ፡

ሰማዴ።"

5 ...ወ... ጽበሕ፤

trans. this phrase before Ati

read ችረ;

በምሥራቅ

Ix ትት;

ኖኝት;።

ሠላሳሳ፡

26. ወበዴኣቲ

።, 8 read ጽወጀጽባሐ፡

= 9 omits.

SUFI.

mi ceJnopw ap

48» £ትረAE;

#5 £ትረ3Ei

« Bracketed

as a dittosraphic rendering.
° dg omits next three words through hmt.
i
Br omit,
7 9 reads ሲ.
5 s# omits.
"E00X. mh ac deFBIRIn0aB read
ሰጽባሕ፡ ። omits.
» Bn read AN;
and omit the next six words through hmt.

1 9 read ጽባhi
"Iልስ፡

B Aስከ፤ Hጽባሕ፤
omit.

/' omits.

)5 9 reads Y3CH;

5 im, f read Aመ3ANY;

a-9, s/n.

13 m reads wANY:

15 a2.

g omits.
1 8.

5 Pu omit.

# mg, ns read

7m reads ወበ ድaቲ: 0AY"፥ ጓገውሣ፤ ሴሲ

aycgpshoxyab read OAY

a reads in the 3rd fem. sing.

15 gy

1 # reads 0.

25 m reads vl;
5 im reads RA;
2 Im. am read YOOAi 3 £ወፀAኣi ፀhE:
5 au, # B~ey read 41; ምራቅ:
u,e "P41; በምሥራቅ
25 am, ID. mo Bh
read HAA
7 Here m repeats the preceding seven words, save that it reads በnAAY;
for በnAAi
=m
omit.
5
reads BAYS
0 gu ready.
1 8. a reads
the 3rd sing. fem. For &£@" bx read Pwርy;
5 Bx omit.
5 e omits next four
Words through hint.
5 8. a reads the 3rd sing. fem.
» a0. 9,18 read AA;
5 Z repeats twice the rest of the verse.
5 mመ reads በጸሐ: Aኖኝት፡
# omits,
£9! add መዋO0ለ
5 ፀ፡% add በኣንት፡ ትኣምርች፤ ዚጸሃ፡
5 68-a. #9 read በድኣቲ፡

በጸሕቲ፡ ዕለት
። በሳድስ ኖሣት wክicክ it trans. ጻer በምፀዕራብ፡
OAT: u are simply an emendation of £9. a reads በnAA 2".
read በ0; and trans. before በRሐE:

/። read በይጻሂ
"ams
DB

186

መጽሐፈ፡

ሃዛኛቫ፡

LXXII. 26-35.

ዕለት፡ ጓኘገውሣ፡ ሴሲት፡። ወትክውን።። ካዕበታ፡ ለማዓልት። ወችክውን፡ ሴሊት፡፣ ዓሠርተ
ወሕልዜተ፣ ፍሰ; ጥንቁቀ’ ወማዓልገ፡ ስድስተ፡ ኳፍሰ።
27. ወፈጻመ፤ ጸሕይ፤
ጸርኣስቲሆ፡።

ሠመሳሰ፡

ወ“ዳፃመ፡

ጽባሕ፡።

ደበ።። ዝኩ’

ወበ “ምዕራብ፤ኒ፡

ኘ091፡'፡ ሴሲት፡።
ሴሲ”

የጸውፎ፡

ዓሠርች፤

ኣምፉጋ፤
ወጸሕደ፤

ጸርኣስቲሆ፡

በምንጻሪሆ፡።

ተፓስዕተ፡ተ።

ወዴበውል፡

የዓርብ።

ልደ፡ [ዝውጻቱ፡

ካፍሰ፡። ወመዓልገት፥

በውልኣጻቱ;"

"ኖሣት፡።

28.

ወበዴኣቲ፣

ዕለት”

ክፍሰ፡

ጸሐደ፡]"

ወኮነት

29. ወገብጸ;።

ፀሐይ

ሰብዓተ፡ ዝፍለ።

ወቦጽ፡። ውስተ ካልእኳ፤። "ኖሣት፥ ኣንነ፡ በ“ምሥመራቐ፡ ወ“ዴገብኳ፡ “ደበ; ዝኩ፡። ጸርኣስቲሆ፡
ሠሳሰ፡ ጽባበሕ፡። ይዴሠርቹ፡።” ወዩኝርብ።
30. ወበዴጻቲ፡” 0ሰጎ፥ ትጋጽጽ፡። ሴሲት፡።
ኣምኒጋ፡። ወትከውን

ሴሊት፡። ዓሠርች፣። ክፍለሰ፡ ወማዓልቫ፡

ደክፍለ።

31. ወበዴኣቲ፡

ዕሰሲኘገ፡ ይወፀኳ፡። ፀሕይ፤ ጻምይኳቲ፡። "ኖሣት፤ ወዩዓርብ፡ በጎረብ፡። ወዴገብኣ፡ በምስራቅ፡።
ወይደሠርቅ፡" በሣልስት" "ሇኖሣት፣ ሠሳሳ፡ ወጸሐደ፡ ጽበሐ፤ ወዩንርብ፡ በምዕራበ” ሰማዴ።
32. በ“ይኣጻቲ፡

ዕሰገ፡፥ ተጋ9ፀ፡ ሴሲት፡ ወትክከውን፡

ተስዓተ፡“። ኳፍሰ፡;”

“ወዕለት፡

ችስን1፡

ወ“ ይትዓረዶ፡።

ማንል፡

ዓመኝ፣። ጥንቁቁ፡።

ካፍሰ፡

' 9 omit.
1 ep omit.

ሴሲት፥

ምስሰ፤

ወይከውን፤

2 au omits next three words through hmt.
5 #1 omits rest Of verse.

የዓው.ፎ፡ ጁበ፡

5

reads 0.

rad በዙ

1 3. ድ ፲eads Jዋሣዊሁ፥

5 ss reads 0, 5 reads ©.

2 a,

14 a7,

ትክውን፡።

5 / reads AOAY:

5 ag trans. before REA;

7 m reads £0:

Bread A

0 Im, 8.

5 ልቱ;

mo/u Jዋግሙው፤

ah

'= መ ዐu read ጽበሕ፡

7m, 8 read በAYንAሪy:

» mp BF

9,7 read

ሴሲ
= omits.
5 29. m, 8 read Yhጽር፡ /። +88;
7 m trans. after,
trans. before Ary:
5 ያ read ትስዓነ፣ #፮. # 5a read Ri (or Ri).
a reads &. m omits together with Ai
The «ninthy if original, must be of the half
moon i for night or day cannot decrease or increase by more than sth, as in Ver. 16.

See note 18 on ver. 10. Perhaps we might emend Ar; into A3AY:
For NEA; (m9, a) other M55. read WEA; and for Rh

or EB.
25 a. 8 reads ትው};
next three words through hmt.

ኻእጻት፣

= m, 8 omit.

= መ 9 read ጽበሕ፤

A second hand in b adds ሲት
= 9 reads DIARY:
5 a, eu omit,

Fm, Fs omit,

5 g omits.

» A gloss.

(#) other MSS. read Rh

7 éfhy read £0 aAnE:

md omits entire verse.

2 0 omits
g/ read

u omits.

i a, B reads TJC

55 m reads 0AYS
5 DX trans. before TRC:
™ su, ae58 omit.
5 ak read %.
0 0 reads TD.
5 # B-% add ካልጻት፣ ደ adds ካእል፡
= a. 5-e read በምፀራብ፡
e በቢምዕራበ፣ ሰማይ፤
"ያ. ኳ/።, 8-0 read ምሥመራቁ፤ 9, 0a ምሥመራቹ፡
» m trans.
after JANN:
» a,/hsfn0,a. apcedeixy read በሣልስ: 9 adds 0AY
“= 2 adds
ዐሐይ፡ በ.
SFL
words through hmt.
read ፎትዔረድ፤

mመu,B read Of.
1 9 reads ሰብ31;
aw omit next four
5 e reads 3A
Fg abr.
moegeFnE
ሃ። ዴሻ'በረይ፡ »ኃ። ትትዒረይ፤ ናዕ0#,። ዴሻ'ረጸይ፡
5 e adds ፍዷመ፡

EXKI SS TAXI, 4,

መጽሕሪፈ፡

ዛኖቹ፡

197

መዋዕለ: “ሠለስኘ፡ ምኣኳ፡ ወስሳ።። ወ“ጸርባዕት።
33. ወኒጋ፤ ሰዕሲት፡ ወሰሴሲሊች፡፡
ወሕፀራ፡ ሰዕሲት፡ ወለሴሲች፡ በ'ምሕዋሪረ፤ ፀሕይዴ፡ ውኣጻቱ፡ ዶትሴሰይ።፡
94. በጻንቲጸሆ፡
ደነውሣ፡፣ ምሕዋሪሆ፡፡ ዕሰ ኣምዕሰት፡ ወሴሲቫ፡ ኣምሴሲት፣ ዴቁርብ።፡
25. ወዝውጻቱ
ችቸኣዛዘ፡ ወምሕዋፉ፡ ሲ"ፀሐይ፤ ወ“ምኘባጹ፡” ሶበ; ደ“ይገብኳ፡“ ወይደወፀጻ፤ ውጻቱ፡
ብርሃን ዓቢዶ፡'፡ ዘይሰመዶ፡" ፀሐሕዶ፡" ሰዓሰመ፡፤ ዓሰም።
36. ወዝንቱ; ውጻቱ፣”
ዘዴወፀፅኣ;። “ውኣቱ፡። “ብርሃን፡ ዓቢዶደ፡ ወ።ይሰመይ፤ “በጸርጸያ፡ ዚጸሆ፡። በከመ፡ ጸዘዘ፡
ኣ7ገዚጻ።።

37.

“በከመ፡

ዴወፀኣጻ፡

ወከመዝ:

ይበውኳ፡።

ወ“ጴየዩኝዕዕፀ፡

ወxየፀርፍ፡

*ጸሳ፡ ይረውጽ፡ መዓልት፡ ወሴሲ፡” ወብርሃ፤ ዚጸሆ፥ ሰብን1፡ ኣደ ዴበርህ፡” ኳም።ዘ፤።
ወርህ፡ ወጸምጣኒሆመሙ፡ ሲዝልዜጴሌሆመ፡ ዘውን7።።
LXXIII. ደሣeyi AH: YAዛH:
ርዚኩ፡ ካልጽ፡። ችኳዛዘ፡። ሰሲብርሃን፡ ንጹስ፡ ዘስመ፥ ወርኝ።
2. ወበበ ከመ፤ ክበበ፡
ሰማድ፡።

ወ።ሰረገሳተ፡።

ዚጸሆ፡

በኘበ፡። ዴጴጺዓኘ፡ ነፉበስ፡ ገኘፍስ፡;። ወበመስፈርጎ፣

ዶትወሀብ፡።

ሎቱ ብርሃን።"
3. ወበዙሱ፡ ወርሣ፡ ሙኻዛጺሆ፡ ወ።ምብዋዉሆሁ፡”። ዴትቹሲጥ፣፥ ወመዋዕሲሆ፡
ከመ፡ መዋዕለ፡ ፀሐይ፣ ወሶበ፥ ይኔሪ፡። ከዩ፤;። ብርሃኒ፡ ይከውን“ ሳሰብዓንዩ;። ልደ
ኣምብርሃ። ፀሕይ።
4. ወከመዝ፡ ይሠርቅ፡ ወርኣሱ፥ ዘ“መንገሰ፡ ጽባሕ፤ ዴወፀኣ፡፣

1 2 reads mp0;
If we transpose before this word the 0 that follows in
Zmg, we might recover the original,
: LL gm tf.
Similarly 9 በሰANE;

AY!

ወስሳi

#, 5 omit 0.

FED(# omits DX.
ረቡዐ፡; or ረቡና or 8.
and reads በም0ራብi
fixes ©. X omits.

የሐውር

m reads el0i
29 read ረቡ):
#, 8 read either
1 9, bh read ወሌሊት; and 9 omits next three words
5 g reads ©.
Srmg prefix ©.
7 g pre2 bx read ምPሕዋሪ
22mg prefix ©.
5 g reads 030:

n sw omits,

mg tu omit.

=

adds ዴገብጻ፤

4 m adds ሲሰኣንት፡

15 8 adds Hሰንሰም፡

5 ዴገብኣኳ፡ ሲ(። በ) ጻን1፡

5 Im, bX read WoውNE:

Sx

7 BX omit next nine words through hmt.

Other MSS. Baht;
OO0R:

# and most other MSS. give simply the numerals

$s LL

15 9 reads DH:

0 mw omits.

።« reads H and omits next three words

For © 8 reads H.

+D.

4 g reads በRCRUS ለውል:

IB
Hat

5 a,epn,

dg adds YAH

ኳ eh read

= mu, 8 omit.

35 sw omits,

= bx read AIHA

=.

m ከመ: Lo ©. 9! ከመዝ ይወ ወከመሽ፡
። ወከመዝ:
5-anx ወከመ: ይወ ©.
anx pho; £በውai ©.
7 an read RODOA;
5 qehtgw omit,
5 5,8 add
በሰረገሳ፡
0 aim. m8 read (+m) PCY
a eB omit.
5 dg omits.

5 g reads AA
ይ B read ሰረገላ;

ድትወሀቦ፡
m adds ap;

5 gu read YAHH:

5 m, aefhknpw read ፀh&;

7 a reads በ4ቡል፡

» w# reads AብCYY
SbB* omit.

5 B. #9/ read ሰብዓYi

5 Fg.

ag.

mh l8 read iE;

9,8 read mጺሆ:

9g adds HAሆ:

ms read £,

5 bcx omit,
2%

5a
5 dg reads

= @ reads 0&f:

a abcdeikilo,ay add AብCYE:
7 9 prefixes ©.

138

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

XXII RS

በሠሳባሰ። ጽባሕ። ወበዴኳቲ፡ ዕለነገ፡ ያስተርዉ፣ ወይዴክከውን፤ ሰክሙ፡፥ ርኣሰ፡ ወርሣ፤ ሠሳሰ፡
ዕሰተ፡፡ ምስሰ፡ ፀሐዶ። በኖሣነ፣ ኣንነ፡ ዴወፀኣ፡ ፀሐዶዴ።፡
5. ወመገፈቁ፡ ርኘቅ፡፣
‘ሰብዕ ጸደ፡ ጸሕደ፡፡ ወ’ዙሱ፡ ካበበ፡ ዚጸሆ በከ; “ዘጸልቦ፡ ብርሃኔ ዘጻንበሰ፡ ሳብዕት
ኣዴሆ፡” “0ሠርጎ፣ ራብዕ“ ኣኳደ፡ ብርሃኒ።
6. ወበዕለጊ፣ ቫኘሥመኳ፡። ሳብዕተ፡፡ ኣደ
መንፈቁ፡። ብርሃኒ፡ ወ“ዴክከውን፡" ብርሃኒ፡ ሳብዕተ፡።”" ሓጻደ፡ ጸሕተ”
ወ።መንፈቃ።።
7. ወዓርብ፡” ምስሰ፡ ፀሕሐዶይ፡። ወሰበ፡ ይሠርቅ፡ ፀሕዶደ፡። ይሠርቹ፡ ወርሣ፡” ምስሴሆ፡
ወይነሥመጳ፤፡ መንፈፃ፣ ኣደ፤ ብርሃን” ወበዴጻቲ፡ ሴሲ በ“ርኣሰ፡ ጽባሐ፡። ዚጸሆ፡ በቅ.ድመ፡
0ሰ፲ቱ፡ ሰወርሣ፡። የዓርብ፣ ወርሣ፡። ምስሰ፡ ፀሕዴ፤ ወዴጸልም፡ በይኣቲ፡ ሴሲ ሂሰብንተ፡።
ኣደ: ወንፍያቃ።
5. ወይሠርቅ፤ በዴኳቲ፡ ዕሰት፡ ሳብዕተ፡። ኣደ፡ ጥንቁቁ ወዴይወፀኳ፡”
i

1 u reads AIAN:

2 reads °4Yi

u omits, and /u add £ወፀA:

° u omits.

«a. 8 reads ጽባሐ: mm adds በወ
° adds በጐል ዶወፀኳኣ፡ ፀሐዶደ፤
፡ 85 trans.
before ድ.
1 fF omits. Flemming obelizes this word, and proposes CX:
== pars) a word not attested elsewhere. But the text is right. Chi = sféxey
which is used of the rising or appearing of the sun. sééxey might in turn be a
rendering of NY? which is used of the rising of the sun and stars.
5 Emended from

ሰብንት፤ ኣፎ (ጻደ፡ ) ጸሕደ፡ o፤ ድ፣ ad ሰብዐት፤ ጻደ፤ ጸሕሐደ፤ ዕየ 9.

መ reads ሂኳፎ፡ ወሂE፡

at, apeFER IND read AE: Bi cdo0y,a SAE; OB:

8 ሰብዓt፡ ደ; ጸሕዱ፤

» g omits.

Other MSS. fi

a gloss on በ:

"ag, inox,a.

# reads havi

For ACYH: mm, 9 read ብCYY

።» ኣደ: ጸሐ:
Looks like

5 gu, Save that they read “Yi

ድ reads ሰብዓጌ፥ = reads . # 8 ሰብዒት፡
3 am. m reads Ei 8 NE; HAW:
#9 and w, save that gu Dut in acc. and for 0wCY; su reads 1. m,8 read Aig:

ያ ጳምዓሠርቱ፡ ወጸርባዕቱ፡ ድ adds መንፈቁ፡
“am. መ, 8 read ይiመA
0. 2 reads
በብዓት፤ =።, 8 ፳. / ሰብዒ 5-8 ሰብዓዩ፡ y insertsB before ሰ".
7g, 0a
oy
Other MSS. It;
Sag. 9,8 omit.
15 g omits together with next word.
0 Emended from ሰብ3Yi£. ሰብዐት; 9. So also m#, gE. The later text (drawn from
ver. 8?) first appears in / ሰብዓ1; ስድስi I y0). 6-8/0 ti. #0 xi.
na,
/reads AA: Other MSS. Ri
=9,7 omit.
= miread mii
au, aps,
fu, B~aprtna omit.

5 2# trans. after gh;

5 a7 omit.

7 oa omit next

three words through hmt.
5 ረ adds በሽሂሂኣድ፤ ዶፌጽም፤ ሹሉ ጽእመተት፤ ወበበሂሂኳ.ፎ፡
ይፌፊጽም፤ ሹስ፡ ብርሃኖ፡ በምሥራቅ፡ ወበምዕራብ፤ drawኳ probably from xxiv. 3.
5B.
ay omit, but m adds it after next word.
5g, ex read ብCYL:
Xm
read ጽበሕ፣ ። ጽርመ፤
= # omits next two words through hmt.
NF, dy omit,
ME. So also wu £%, abcgde/hinoxa iD. መያ! ስድስቱ፡ £ (9 ሰብዐቱ; / ወሰብን1;). ፣/5
support m 7 / #OE.
5 0,a Omit next Six words through hmt.
5 Emended from
#/ ሰብፃጎጌ፣ ያ ሰብዕት፤ መ።, /5ሃ8። read ፳. abde፣ሆx,8 read ሰብዓ; ci.
un omit.

XXII

SPX AXIV, 6:

(መጽሕሐፈፉ፡

ህኛኻ፡

1389

ወይድ0ፀንን; ኣምሥመራቁ፡ ፀሕሐዶደ፡ ወ“ዶበርህ፡፡ በትራፈ፡፡ ዕለቱ “ስድስተ፤ ወሰብን፡፣ ኣደ።፡
LXXIV. DAA: ዋረ’ ወትaዛH:፡ CAs ሎቱ; ኣንተ “በውኣቱ፡ ትኣዛክ፡፡ ዴገብር፡
ምሕዋር"

መራሒሆሙ

ዘ"ጸውራሣ።

2. ወዙ:

ሰመ“

ወምንባሪሆመሙ፡

ወጸሕፍክ፥ ጸውራሂሆመ፥
በከመ፡፤
*0wር፡ ወኝሙስ;'* መዋዕል"

ጸርጸዩኒ፤

ጽዙርሌል፡

“ወጸሕፍኩ፡፥

መልጸኻ፡

ምገንበሪሆመ፡።

ቐዱስ፤

ዘውኣጻቲ

በከመ፤

ጸርጸዩኒ፡

ሀሰዉ፡“" ወ“ርጳዩ፣ ብርሃኖመ፡፥
3. በ፱”*ሂ%= ሌፎ ይፌጽም

ኣስከ፣ ተፈጺጸመ፡
ሹሉ” ብርሃኖ፤።
በሠርቅ፡። ወ“በበሂሂጸደ፡ ይፈጽም፤ ሹስ። ጽልመ፡” በምዕራብ።
4. ወበ።ጽውራሣ፣
ኣሙራትጓ፡። ዴይቐልጥ፡።” ምዕራባተ፡
ወበጸውራሣ፡፡ ጳሙራት፡” የሕውር፡። ምመሕዋሪሆ፥።
ጸሐዱ፤ ጸሕሐዱ።
5. በ።ክልሌ፣፤ ወርሣ፤። የዓርብ፣ ምስሰ፤ ፀሐይ፤ በኣሲ፡፣ ክልጹ፡። Jግዋሣው፡
ኣሰ፡ ማጻክከል፤” በሣልስት፡። ወ“በራብዕት። ኖሣት። = 6. ድወፀኳ፡" ሰብንተ;“። መዋዕሰሲ፣

ia, 5, Other MSS. fCY:
adds 170;
“mu.
9 reads በYሪፈ:i LAU
1 0ትeፈi 8 በትረፈi
m reads 0AYS 9 prefixes 0.
“/ So g save that it omits ©.

g reads ስድስት ሰብዐገ፣
።, » ስድስተ ("ጀ፡ ሠ) ወሯ. Other MSS. ወጂ.
ወንፍቃ፤ ወይዴሠርቹ፡ በድኣኳቲ፡ 0ዕሰነ፣ ሰብንዩ፤ ኣደ፡
‘n,5. ድ7/። read ክልእኣ፡
#9u read ምPዋri

* bc add
መ! 8

This word may be a gloss from the margin, but 8 is possibly right

in reading © before next word.

07 read TAHH:

Cf. 1xxii. 35.

2 wu omits.

mgt
#FreadstN; Hi
1 wu omits next five Words.

Sm, and 8 save that Zm omit ©.

10 # reads መዋ

» ዋሪ

1 # reads 0.

tH:
8tN;
5 Bo, a reads HውAEi oa omit,
Sem.
#8 read simply RhéEhr;
15 g reads UA;

7 m reads AE:
5 mtu. 9 reads ONCE: ወ3ምስE: 8 Xo:
5 g omits.
mb B. gw read B(9 ACN0E)A. m7 add OCA
= 8. m2 read ሰብዓቱ; ሰብዓቱ
7 reads ሰብዓቱ ሰብዓት፣ ድ። ሂሄሰብዓገ፣ ። ሂወ፮.
5 mg, Bn. Pu, n read AE:
a adds ጳስካ፣
5 ድ reads tt:
1 9 reads ACYL: F»rt read ጽAመY: and add

ወበበሂሂኳደ፡

ድደፌጽም፡

ዙሉ

ብርሃኖ፡

በምሥራቅ

ወበምዕራብ፡

ፕፐis addition really

constitutes Verse 3 as found in a. According to Dillmann ¢ makes this addition after
the second WN; in the text, and similarly #5wy according to Flemming.
50.
ያ, 8 read በምሥራቅ
Saan omit,
On the insertion after We; in this clause

see note 24.

7

8.

mou read ©,

c omits next four words through hmt.

three words.

= m trans. before MAR
mi /°B prefix 0.

7 a,s,

5 » adds ጸን

5 m8.

5 m,B.

0 mf lB. £9 read Aራli

= 0 reads ምመሐዋሪሆመሙ፡

በራብዕ

# omits.
am

u, 0a omit.

ሃሪ።ዕ ምፀዕራቢሆ፡

"

5 amg.

ey prefix ©.

adds ፀhይ;

4 omits next

a ru prefix ©.

5 m reads በቢ.

» # adds ጸውራሣ፣ ወ.
Bt read ቢልስ;

Fgu read Aራ]:

read PLEA:

bc2xy

ወበ.

9 reads Ahi

5 Bcdloxy,a read

4 FhiRnw read ሰዓ;

140

መጽሐፈ:

ወየጸው.ደ፣፥

ወዴደገብኣ፡

ብርሃኖ። ወዴፀንኘጌ፣

ኻካዕበ፡ “በ'ኖሣት፡

ዛኛኻ፡

ኣን1።

EXRIVIBSIR

ይዴወፀኣ፣

ኣምፀሕሐዶዴ፡ ወይዴበውልኳ፡ “ሰመኘ፤

ፀሐሕደ፡

ወ’ዴፌጽም፤

ሸዙሎ፡

መዋዕለ፡፡ በ“ሰ.ፎስት;፡ "ኖሣት፣ ኣንተ

ኣምኔሃ፡፡ ይወፀኳ፡ ፀሐይ።
7. ወሰበ፤ “ፀሕይ፤ ድወፀጻ፡፣ ኣም፣ራብዕት። "ኖሣቫ
ዴይወዕኣኳ፡' ሰቡዐ" መዋዕሰ፡ ኣጻስከ፤ ዴወ9ኳ፡ “ኳም፤፡ ጋምስኝ፡። ወ*ካዕበ፡;” ዶገብኣኳ፡ ሰቡዐ;
መዋዕሰ፡

*በኖሣሻ፡

ራብዕ;

በቁዳሚት፡” ኖሣቫ፡ ሰሙ

ወይድፌጽም፡

መዋዕሰ።

ዙሎ፡።

ብርሃኖ:

5. ወካዕበ;

ወዴይጸንን፡""

ወይበውል፡፣

ዴገብኳ፡ ሰቡዐ፡ መዋዕሰ፡ በራብዕኘ፡”"

"ሣት" ኣንት፤፡ ኣምኔሃ፡ ዴወፀኳ፡ ፀሕይዴ።
9. ከመዝ: ርጺኩ፣ ምንበሮሙ፡። በ“ከመ፤
*ይሠርሕ፡ ጸውራሣ፡። ወየንርብ፡። ፀሕሐይ፡ በ“ጻማንቱ፡ መዋዕል።
10. ወ“ዴትዊዌሰሕ፡።
ኃምስቱ”

ዓመጓ፡”

ወዴበጽሕ፡”

ለ"ፀሕሐይ፤

ዴዶበጽሕያዎ፡። ሰ“ዓመት፡ ጀ።ኳምኣልኩ፥

ሠሳሰ፤፡

ዓመት

መዋዕሲ።።

11. ወዴበጽሕ፤፡ ምብጻሒሆመሙመ።፡"

ሰሲ“።ጀዓመታች፡።

በበ“ስሱ፡

ዴበጽሑሖሙ፡

መዋዕል”

ተመሊጾመ፡

ወሹሎመ፡።።

ሲፀሕድዴ፤ ወሰከዋክብት፣

ሰ“ሠሳሰ፡

መዋዕል፡።

ይክከወሃ፡። “ሂጀወቿ"ወረቡ0;

ዕሰት፡

ስሱ፡“። መዋዕል፡“

ወየሕ9ፀዕ፡።

ኣጻምፀሐይዴ፣።

1 9 reads ቢ"T4ት; ©. = Jበ:;
። 5 add በውጻቱ፤
* 9 reads ብCYL: a omits.
ay trans. before WN: x omits next two words.
+ 9 reads በሰሙ መዋዕል፡
2
reads NEN:
5 # reads Ji Xia omit preceding word.
TE
abcdge/hhlox,a trans.
reads LD” DCA;
s w reads 0.
2 5 reads £0;
0 # adds ፀሐይ;

JምስትYi
5

1 m reads AR:

u omits,

5 mm reads Ary;

19 reads 02 ራብ0ት፡

reads ብCYP;

15 m reads DAY}:

Jስቱi

u 0g.

abe

= J; ራብ); /።5 በራብዕ; ("ት n 2".

5 AYY: corrected into RA}:

u omits.

7 0% omit.
'5 9 reads በpዳ
» ba omit.
0 a trans. before ሰ);
a ureads DAH: bnx pho:
= £ reads መንበሮ gምYባéሆ FC
5g.
9, 8 read መር0Y፡ ጸውራኒሆሙመ፡ ይሠርሕ፡
“። ይሠርቅ፤ ሥመር" ጸውራሂሆሙ፡
A ru omits next three words.

በኗበ፡

። adds £0;

ዓመቲ፡

ድህ

Fm

B reads Df.

5 L #9 read Jምስትi
(aረ?Y.

መ reads ወይበጽሕዋ፣፡

So also e save that it omits ©.

25 a, B omits.

Other MSS. E.
ያ ወበጽሐ፡

1 8. a reads መዋ00;

7 im adds

5 my, B. gu read
ሃ 8-aረሪ

ወዴበጽው፡

5 gyread DWN;

5 8 reads መዋPO0AYS se omits.
# ereads ቢጽ:
5 0,5 while mg read Rh
Other MSS. read B and trans. before oY
9 reads ToAAs
«TYR;
ግ 8-0, a, 0 read Rhው
Smug,
SHFE(/wANE:) ምት ወስሳi
” = adds
ይደክውንን

ፃስሰ፡
aa,

B,

40 mn, B.

9 reads ምፀባሒሆሁ፤፥

4 m reads ስ;

Sam 0g. m reads 0. 9g omits. 8 reads AF;

s# reads qm;

omit,

45 nm, 8. am

ወtሐፀፁ; and is probably right.
subject.

/። read ምብጻሒሆ፡

“መ,8. Z9/u read መዋ0A;

45 nm, B omit.

ግ ይ, B, a reads

If so, we must understand Rውé Yi = « moons,’ as its

5 # omits the next five words through hmt.

XXIV. i114.

መጽሐፉ፡

ወጻምክዋኻብኝ።፡

ሄናኻ፡

ወርሣ፡፡ ሠሳሰ፡ መዋዕሲ።

141

12. “ወፀሐይ;፡ ወከዋክብት፡፣ ያመጽጸመሙመ።፡

ለዓመታት’ ጥንቁቃኝ፡፡ ትሎሙ፡፣ ከመ፡ ምንባሪሆሙ፡፡ ሰዓሲም፡፡ “ዚዴበ ድፉ ወ"ጺይዴጋሩ፡"
ጸሐት፣ ዕሲት፡ ጸባ; ዴቐልጡ፡ ዓመጊ፡ በጽ.ፎቅ፣፡ ጥንቁቁ
13. ሲሂዓም፡፡
ድኩን፡

መዋዕል፡

ሰሯዓመሻ፡፥

ሰ“ባሕቲቱ፡

ሂጀወጂ“ወዝልሌዜ፡"

ጀወጃጀ፡።”

ዶበጽሕ፡”

መዋዕል፡“

መዋዕሲሆሁ፡፡

በበ; “ሂጀወጃወረቡዕ፡ መዋዕል"

ወሰጀ“ዓመት'፡ ሂ"ወ“ሯጀ"መዋዕ0ል፤።
ወዓሠውር፡

ሰ"ሂዓም፡።

ወሰኒዴ፡

መዋዕል።

ወጀ“ ከመ፡

14. ሰ’ወርሣ፡

ሂ፲ጀ፡ ወሯወጀ።መዋዕ0ል፡

*ወሰጀ፡

ዓም”

1 0 omits next five words through hmt.
27,8. a has preserved the word but
in the wrong context, for it trans. it into the next sentence and made it the subject
of Pp", and so destroyed its sense. Z°8 here represent the older text by preserving
ወርኝሣ; in its right context, but have erred in following Zn and intruding C4
as the subject of the next sentence.
5 Emended from AምBhEi of mi. gw, 8
omit. See preceding note. Bh: ወhዋnብY; are the subject of PAs
This
construction can stand though PጽAps would be more usual.
+t. Fm read

ወጻምከዋሕብት፣

5, 5 omit. After ወhዋnብች: all MSS. except » add ወወCኝi

(ss adds

ወርሣ) This transposition was first made apparently by £m.
8 here followed £m
and at the same time the older text in reproducing C4; in its original context,
See note 2. Our author advocates a solar and sidereal year as the author of the
Boog of Jugslees, Vi. 32=36 (my notes). The unemended text which represents the
moon as the perfect time divider is in glaring contradiction With Verses Io, 11 and with

Fupslees, vi. 36.

m8.

# reads ለዓመት;

u, 8 ጥንቁቁ; / trans. TY before AY.
5 omits.
"m8. 29 read ARE;

ፀ ዚዴግድፉ፤

። የንድ

(sic).

9/u ዓት;

2 £mng read ጥንቁቆች

7m prefixes.
©. u omits,

* Scvwx read ንበሮ;
my, B. # reads RR

5 9 read AA

8 £ omits,

m reads Ti;

But probably TYiቁg; and በጽ.Y; are alternative renderings of és እngeia.

፣5 ፀ/ read ሠሲስቱ፡ ምጻት፣ ወስሰ፤ ወረቡበ (ሃ0)፤; መዋዕለ (/ል)፡
g omits.

ወተስኝ፡
1 m8.

ia-g.

9 omits.

3 # writes in full ወAስራ;i

ሰzጆ፤.

#8 read pO;

9 ፲፤ጀ፤፮. For 1m reads x.
# writes in full ሰoYE: PAY:
d reads HE.

Zu add.

/ reads 0ሠCE: AY:

9 adds qoYi
9 omits, m reads XE.
Zw read 1. 9 omits.
= B trans. after K.
8 f writes in full AYE;

5 Fu l8, # writes in full Aስራ ወተስዓቱ; AY!

numerals are erased.
fixes H.

5 a, 8 omits.

0 af omit.

8 omits.

« reads ለሂጀዓመት

7 Fu read ቢቢ.

1 a adds መዋOል፡

Z read

FiOyE.

Ing both

#ehxiaomit.

"n pre-

2s So all MSS. but Zs

which read Og. / writes in full ስሰ; OMAR: and omits next word. For AR: 7 reads
nAሌE:
In 5g Fozog is erased.
5 Fu and #/ written in full OADPNE; 3;

m reads E37;

9 p03oት; E. a/8tn ሰዓት:

9cd፣i0xa pAYትYE.

145

መጽሐፈ፡

የጋ00; መዋዕሲ፡ ጋምሰ፡ (ጻስመ፡ ዴትቐሰክ፡

ዛኛኖካ፡

LXXIV, I4CLXXV. 2.

በፀጸቱ፡ ፲ጀ፡ ጀወክልጹ፡ መዋዕል።)፡

ወይከውን ሰሄ፤ ዓም “፲ወሂጀወሮ’፣መዋዎ0ል፡ ከመ ድዴኩን፡ ሰወርሣ፡
ሾጀወxii: ወiወሰrይ: ጦዋOል፡፡
16. |aስመ፡ :»05 ሰሂዓመነ፡

15.

በጃ “ዓመት፡፡፣ መዋዕል
መዋዕል፡ ፳]'"ሹሎመሙ፡”"

መዋዕል፡ ዘጋፀፀ;" ኣምሯዓም፡ መዋዕል፡። ጅ።
17. ወይትፌጺጸም፡"። ዓመት'፡ በጽ.ፎቅ፡
በhመ; መንበረ; ዓለመ ዚጸሆመ፡ " ወ“መንበረ፡ ፀሕይ፡ ጳሰ፡ ይሠርቁ፡ ኣምኝ፡ "ኖሣት፡ ኣሲ
ኣምኔሆመ፡ ደሠርቅ፡ ወዩንርብ፡ መዋዕሰ፡ 8።
LXXV. D"መራሕያኒሆመ“ ለጸርኣጳስች፡
ጸኣባፍ፡ ሓጻሰ፡ ጁበ፡ ሹሰ፡ ፍጥረት፣ ወደበ፡ ሺሹሱ፡ ከዋኳብገ፡ ምስሰሲ፡።” ኣሱ። “ኣለ;
ዴትቹዌሰኩ፡። ጴዴዶትሴሲዩ፡። “ኣም ምግባሮሙ” በከመ ሕሳበ፡። ዓመት፡ ወኣሱ፡ ዶትቁነዩ።
በ; መዋዐሲ፡ ኣሰ፡ ጸ።ዴትጋሰቡ፤፥

ቦመ“።

አስመ፡

በ"ሕሳሰበ፡ ዓመት።

ጸሙንቱ፡ ብርሃናት፣

52. ወበኣንቲጸሆመሙመ፡

ይጌግዩ፡

በጽፎድቅ፡። ዴትቁነዩ፡ መንበረ፡። ዓለም

“ሰብኣ

ሄበ“ቁዳሚ፤።

1 LL m, Bread g. 29u BN:
5 This clause is bracketed as a marginal
eloss as Beer and Flemming have recognized. If it belonged to the text at all it
should be found at the close of ver. 15; for it simply explains how that 2832 arises

from the addition of i110 and 1062.

AS regards the text 9 reads ahh; for ah;

Bcdex trans. ይት” after ARNE: (#Z reads AAT) against a, G~apcdexy.
ay omit
በ8". ሪ adds 0g after YE, and # B~a add £0: After 0&1 have with the margin
of c added X¥ which is not found in any other MS.

in full 0wCE; ወሰብዓ; AY

ወሰብ:

im, B read A. 9D.

gw omit.

5 mB.

5 Fu, l8, and # which writes

5 reads Iጀoig.

‘290w.

9 toxfRD:

‘Iu.

#8 read POW

my omit.

7 ሠ a / in fu]]| በሥራ ምጻት ወሰመንቱ ምኳጓ 8. ድ rሩጻባs ጀወጀወቿጀ.
ያ ወጀጆጀ.
ፃ ይ aባd ከመ: ሕፀፀፁ፡ ሰሄዓመኝ፡ መዋዕሊሱ፡ ጀጀወሯጀጸወጀመዋዕል፡
9 ‘The clause in
brackets is either a marginal gloss or not improbably the next clause and it are
duplicate renderings. For መዋOA; which a reads, Bey read መዋOሊሁi
e omits.
B reads oትi
For 20 of £9, m reads 400;
8-5 49005 #5 490; For F

#1 reads ሰመን;
»giu, agitloak. m reads ti
ወሎ
m reads Hhgi For ai 9 reads AYE:
read POA;

ዓመታት:
HA:

m, e58y omit.

5 008.

5 9 reads ምiféi
"a omits.

"28.

mu

read ይRትELR;

yu. £9’ read Ami
ag omit.

9 tN SceFBnpox
a-m, abc, g/iiInox,ay

Fg.

14 mo reads

m8 omit

7 dg reads

miu, B read ምስለ;

= 9.

Zu read AA; m,B omit.
= m omits.
5 m prefixes, nD.
m,BBcxab
prefix ©. bcx,ay insert AA; before REY".
5 መ. ድያu read ጸም ምበ
ፃ ኣምክ ምንበር፡

LAE

= 8 ኣምንበሮመሙመ፡

=” dreads YI

35 B trans. after AYE.

በምንባረ፣

5 በከመ፡ ምንባረ፡

5 8 adds ሹሉ

Dux omit
Shu.

Acc. loci.

ሥ። በመንበረ፣

7 » reads At

8B omits.

4 adds

».

a, 8 trans.

mg, cdo read Pei

abe/hss

= ። rሪኳd ድመ፡

EXNV 2G
ሇሣት፡፡

ወጀ“በሣልስ፡።

*ኖሣተ፡

መጽጠፈ፡

ህሄኛኻ፡

ሰማዴይ።

ወጀበ“ራብ0፡፡

ወዴትፈጻም፡፡

ጥንቃቄ

ዓሲም:

ሰትችትኳምርት፡

ወለጸዝማን፤

ወለዓመት፡።

ኣግዚጸ፡
ከመ

ስብሐት፡"

ለንሰም፡;።

ይምልኩ”

በ።ገጸ፡

በ'በ፡

ሄበ፡

ሰማዴደ፡

-ኖሣት፡።

ሂጀወሯ"ወፀ"መንበረ፡።

ወጀበሳድስ፣
ዓሰም።

"ኖሣት፡
3. ጳስመ፡

ወሲ“መዋዕል፡ ጸርልዩኒ፤' ጽዙርዴል፡ መልጸካ፤ ዘጸንበረ፡"

ሹዙሎመ፡፥

ብርሃናተ፣፥

ወዴት'ረጸዩ፤።

ሰ።መኝልት፡ ወሰ።ሴሲት፡

ፀሐደ፡ ወወርሣ፡

በቸሎመ፡።

በማዶ”

ሰረገላ”

149

ዲጁበ፡

ወክዋሕብነ፡

4. ክመዝ፡

ሰማሣይ፡

በሰማዶ፡”

ምድር፡

ወይኩኑ; ።” መራሕያ፤

ወዙ

ዓመፉኗፉ፡።

ወበጎሰም፡

ቅገዩታኝ፡። ጻሰ፡ የዘውዱ
ወልዜ፣

“ጋዋግሣወ፡

ጸርጸዩ፤

ጽርሌጴል፡ ርሣዋች፡። በክበበ፡ ሰረገሳች፡። ፀሐሕይደ፤ በ“ሰማደ፤ ኣለ፡ ኣምኔሆሙ፡። ይወፀሉ፡”
ኣገሪሃ፡ ሰፀሕይደ፡ ወ ኣምኔሆመ፡ ዶወፀኳ፤ ሞቐ፡። ዷበ፡ ምዶር፡ ሶበ፡ ይዴትረጋዉ፡። በጸዝማን፡
ሓጻሰ፡

ጳሙራን፤

ቦሙ

5. ተወለነፉሰት፡

ወለመንፈሰ፡

ጠል፡ተ”"

[ሶበ፣

ዴችረጋው፡

ርሣወኝ፡ በበማድ፤ ጁበ፡ ጸጽናፈ።]*
6. *ሶበ፤ ድትረጋዉ፡። ዓሥኗ፡ ወልሌ፤ ጋዋሣው፡፤።
በሰማደ፤ ፉበ፡;። ጸጽናፈ፡ ም.ድፎር፡ ኣለ፡ ኣምኔሆመሙመ ይዴወዕኳ፡። ፀሐድደ፤ ወወርሣ፤ ወከዋክብት

+ £ omits next five words through hmt.,
ሇሣኝ፡;

4 9/read ራብ0Y;

7 2 prefixes 0.

* 9/#, 0a read ANY:

2 9 adds ወጀበኝምስ፤

5 g reads 3;

2 Bc omit.

a. 8 reads

£m, 8. gtu read PRR:
0 F omits.

1 # writes the

entire numerals in full wAስቱ: ኳት: ወስሳi ወጸርባOE:
5 g reads ምገበረ:
# 9g reads D0.
Scdiox,a,8 ወለ;
ag, aeFBignpw. 9 reads ለዓ;
5 # omits.
6 a,tk. Bk read HAY0c:
7 9 reads pé&NስY;
af BE
reads HAA;
» f omits.
» £ reads PAW
= mnireadሲ
“Bread
ወድትረዓይ፡
35 0a read hk
4 7s read 0.
5 reads Df. bcns@.
5 a8k read PRN
7 at read pኔታትi
= 9, e read በች
= 9 reads ሰራዊ
5 Ff reads ሰማያ:
it adds ARM:

Nm reads ዓUrEi

53 Zu, aFhsifn,

So also e save that

after KC" and 2m save that for CAዋY: it reads JDዋሣዋYi

g reads

DTግሣው; ወጸCAtL; ጽራዜRAi £ omits all but last word. Scdiox,ay JPAወ(/o,a ው
ርግዋት፡ ጸር" ጹር".
a9. 9 reads ሰረገሳት፡ 8 ሰረገሳት፡ ዘ.
"ያ reads ወበ, 5 ዘ.

5 2, ,p omit next four words through hmt.,
Sh8.
EN

Z reads yi

m9,» TrYi

# m1;

#9 reads Rg:

7 FB. a omits,

m 8. a reads ችረ»;

m adds

0.1 have obelized the above three words as unintelligible in this context.

Z omits © before ANY;

a 1 have bracketed these words as a dittography of the

first clause of ver. 6. The text given is that of £., mg agree with it save in reading CግወY; and NSE: and # save that it omits 0 (for which9reads A) before ሰማE:
and reads በC4OY; for CYOY'; 0 and RጽSE for RXS&: /5, 8 obscure the dittography
by insertine በRHay}; afier £YረeS; (for which most MSS. read “ረጋa).
Further
variations in 8 are as follows;

bedstioxs read በሰማPY;i

for C4AOY'; 8-0 read CAዋY; and for በሰy Ei ae,

o,a read C4ዋPY; and omit £YéDEi

Tor the last word

B—0 read “ey
5 a (Save that a~# read verb in 3rd sing.). B omits.
a
B reads Jዋዳሣ:i and adds CA
4a.
abc read ©, JeFBIRInOBWUXya 0.

5 af

#,8-7F read ROOK:

144

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛ፡

LXXV.6LXXVL, 5.

ወሸሱ፡ ገብራት ሰማደ፤ ኳምኔ ምሥራቅ ወጻም፤ ምዕራብ።
7. ወመሰክው፡ “ርሣዋት፡
ብዙጋኃት። “ኣምፀጋም፤ ወኳምየማን። ወጸሐቲ፡ መስኮት በዘመኔ ዚጸሃ፡፡ ታመው
ሞቁ።

ከ'ከመ፤

ጻልኩ፡

ወጻሰ፡

ቦሙ“

የዓርቡ፡

ዴረውጺ፡

ጋኃዋሣው፡

ኣጻሰ፡ ይወፀጽ፡’ ጳምኔሆመ፡

በከመ፤ ሦልቁሙ።

በዓሰም፤ ጳኣመልዕልተመ፡።

ኣሰ፡ ዚ“ናዓርቡ።፡

LXXVI.

ከዋኳክብገ፡

በከመ፡፤ ጸዘዞሙ፡

ሰረገሳት፤

በሰማድ፤ ጻንዚ፡

8. ወ“ርዚኩ፥

ሰጻልኩ፤ ኃጋዋሣው፡፤ ጻሰ፡ ቦሙ“

9. ወ፩“ዓቢዮመ፡

ሰዙሎመ፡

ይትመየጡ፡

ከዋካብት፡

“ወውኣቲቱ፡ ዘ"“የዘውድ፡" ሰሲ"ዙሰ፡ ዓሲም።

OD0RBጽS፡ ምድር፡። ርጺኩ፣ ዓሥፉ፤። ወልሌ፣ ጋዋሣወ፡።” ርሣዋች'፡። ሰ“ሸሎሙ፡

Iፉሰት፡። ኳሰ፡ ኣምኔሆመ፡፥ ዴወፀዉ፡። ነፋሳት ወይነፍቡ፡።” ዷበ፡ ምድር።
ቴሆመ“፡ ርሣዋት፡” በገጺጸ፤ ሰማዴ፤ ወ፫’በ“ ምዕራብ” ወ“ጀ’በየማሄ ሰማይዴ፡

3. ወ።“ቁዳሚያት፡።
በፀጋም። ሰመንገሰ፡

ኣሰ; መንገሰ፡ ጽባሕ፡ ወጀ“ሰ“መንገሰ፡ መስዕ፡ ወሂ[ቢድሣረ፡ ጻሲ፡
ጸዜብ፡ ወጀ“ሰንረብ።“”
4. በ“Bጻምኔሆሙመ፡ ዴወፀጽ፡።” ነሳ

በረከት፡ ወ።ሰባም፣፤ ወኳምኣልኩ፤
ይደመስስዋ፡።

ወ’“ዙቡ፡።

ሲ“ዙሳ፡።

ዘሀሉ፡

ሰማንቱ፡" ዴይወፀጹ፡ ነፋሳተ" መቅሠፍነ

መምድር፡

ውስት;”።

ወ።“ማይ፡“።

ማዴ;”

ወዷበ፡

1 ak read OWN; «7/5 ORNs
read AgJwi

2. “ልም
ወ“ጀ’በፀጋም።

AIL:

ዘደቤሃ፡

ወሸሱ፡“

ሂየብስ።

5. ወ“ዴወፀኣ፡

ኣሰ፡

= 9/ read C4ዋY; ብWDYI

ac/Btn

read the same

ዩየጋፎፉ፡

ዷደቤሃ፡፣

ቁቀዳማይዴ፤

ነፉስ፡

a. JcI0vXyay

but in the reverse order.

« 9 reads መሰ;

° g omits.

9,5 TY; uw;
t0CA: /0C05

«tu, n read 0. £9 read OBA
"a omits.
1 9 reads
= omits.
* £ reads AመAላOAti
bc IopwXyay add

ወጻመችሐችሙ፡

5 eh read HAሁ:

ሶበ፡ ይትፌነዉ፡

15 Dex trans. after RY".

# reads £YC0: 9 f3Ci
"Zn.
iw reads pH. 9, Bn read NE;
= w# omits,

C4ግዋY:

f/f reads wri

= m reads OA.

7 Fh8.

m omits.

5 mn omits.

5 mgt 0%,a read JpAሣD

= £ reads iEሰYi

8 adds CX

7 9 read OA

u adds 1ፉሰY;

5% n reads O0ራi ሰ:

= gu8.

following ¥ (four times).

®a-g,5. 9 reads pዳEትY;

85 ቀዳY;

25 # reads DF.

0 0, DB read C4ዋY

ny omit.

ያ ሰምዕራብ፡

7 omits

» pዳማውያY

5» Bracketed as a gloss. For በ£Aéi of emu and መY1A: £4

of9,በ£ACSi5 read by #, 8, and for At; of £m, AAS; is read by 9/, 8.

በዓረብ፡

"9 reads

e/u, Bei0x,a.

ፃ ርጎው፡ በቢ. ። ርሣዋን
0,8 omit.

15 mi Zia, 8.

Other MSS. t0ብFr or t3ብ.
“aI,
5 m reads Ai
5 FB» read 0 (2 omits),

mg, eiooxa read AEs

ag.

m reads ምው:

5 m, BBL

#g/ read ሲ.

tu. m, Bread

u#wO,esH,i 0.

ZFomits.

5 3, am read LOOAi
m omits.
5 g reads D0.
0 Emended from AYE: of
au with 8B which reads Z. ss omits,
ሣ ድ rads ፍሰት;
= mu, B-BRI6.

Z, »ዳ/5 read ዴደምስስዋ፣፤ ያ ድደም".
3 g reads ti a omits,
4 wu omits next
three words.
5 Fmh hu, 945 read ሰማ; B~a95 Ai ow Aሰማይi
“mn
7, 8read ARN
“a reads ውስkyi
u omits, a reads Whi
# e/Bpy
ዲበ፡
0 q reads ሰማ;
1 mg omit.

LXXVI. 5~ro.
ኣምልጻልክቱ።

ጋኃዋሣው፡

መጽሐፈ:
ዘስመ።

ጽባሓይ፡

ሄኖ

145

በ“ቁዳሚት;፡ "ኖሣት፡

“ኣንት፡ መንገሰ፡ ጽባሕ፡፣

ወ“ታጸንን፡ ሰጸዜብ፡
ዴይወፀኣ። ኣምኔሃ፣
ድፎምሰሴ፡፡ የብስ። ወሞቅ።
ወሐሕኾል።፣
6. ወ“ቢ“"ጀኖሣት፡ ማኣክሳድት። ዴወፀኳ፡። *ርት'0፡ ወይወፀኳ፡። ጻምኔሃ፡ *ዝናም፡ ወፍፎመ፡
ወሰባም፡;። ወጠል፤ ወበ“ሣልስ፡፡፡ "ኖሣት፡ “ኣንት፡ መንገለ: መስዕ፣፡ ይወጽኳ፤ ቍር፡ ወናየብስ።

7. ወጻምድሣረ፣ ኣሱ፡;። ነፉሰት።። በ“"መንገለ፣ ጸዜብ፣ ዶወፀኳ፡ በ፫ኖሣች፡” (ቁዳማይ፤|።
በ“ቁዳሚት፡። "ኖሣት፡ ኣምኔሆን፡። ኣንተ፤ ታፓጻጸንን፡። ሰ።መንገለ። ምሥራቹ፣ ይወፀኳ፡።
ፉስ ሞቅ።።
8. ወበኖሣት፤ “ጸንተ፡ ጋቤሃ፡። ማኣከሳዶት፡” ይወፀኳ” ልምኔሃ፡
መዐዛ ሠናይ: ወጠል፡ ወዝናም፤ ወሰሳባም፡ ወጨዶዴወት'።
9. ወ።በቢ“ሣልስት፣። "ኖሣች፤።
ኣን1፡" መንገሰ፡

ምዕሪራብ፡ ይወፀኣ፡ ኣምኔሃ፡። ጠል፡ ወዝናም፡ ወጸናሹዕ፡። ወድምሰሴ።
10. ወሕምድሣረ፤ ኣሱ፡። ነፍሰት፡። “ዘመንገለ; መስዕ; [ዘስሙ፡ ባሕር፣ ወዘወፀ፡]፣
ኳም።ኗኖግት፡። ኣንት፡ መንገሰ፡ ምሥራቅ” |መንገሰ፤ ጸዜብ፣]" ይወፀኳ፡" ኣምኔሃ። ጠል፡

i Fmt
s a omits.

u,8 read AAA:
2 a, B~e0y, ehny read PRE: os ቁ8t
sa. bcgloxyaB read AY: ae/hs8nH. See note 7.
su prefixes ©.
ና ZF reads ደምሰቤ;
7 Here 9 repeats again all that precedes of ver. 5,
Save that it omits © at the beginning and reads & for © before ZA:
sm

BJ.

gfinya read OY;

# wg:

5 # reads DJA;

10 8.

a omits.

uFgu. m reads Aዜቱ: / 5-75 nA: #5 NAA;
5 a=, B-Bn0. a reads
ማኣከሳባዪት፣ ኔ።ዕ፣። 8 ማኣክሳዊነ፡
8 g prefixes ©.
# e,5 omit through hmt.
a omits DR” and trans. CY0; after AY:
/ omits © before ይወ.
15 # reads
ወሰባም፤ ወዝኖም፤ ወፍሬ፡
i5 a, ag/8I0wyab.
Bcehsn read ሣANትY:
CR
reads H.
5 g reads AAG oy omit.
Fmt Beh. g,ehy read H, uA.
=»
reads በሣልስት 0ሲት'፡ ዘኖሣች፣ ። ፫ኖሣት፣ 9 omits.
1 m, F/ read ቁዳEY;
Bs pዳY;
ቀዳሚት: To be omitted with 9%.
5 gu, B-Joxab. Fm read
ቀዳማይት
/ዕxas ቀዳሚ
5/8.
wu reads DALY; a-/u,። AP
tau, 01). w8-48 ty read YAY}; #8 Yት2})
5 9 omits.
% Fmu prefix ©.
7 B~en. # reads 1EሰY; 1ፉሰY; 9 140; /u 1ፉሰY; eith:i ©. »። omits.
=, B~ay.
2% reads ምውቆት፣ 9 ምውቅ vas ሞ1;
5 # reads ማANሳዪትi »5 ማAክሳዊት;
5 g reads LON
a a,aifina. BcdgeFBovXyy read JAN:
=u, b omit.
5 g#wu read ASN):

# wu reads AN;

5 0/°,8.

mu

5 m reads Ho}IA; Ri

መስዕ:

9 omits.

7 An interpolation. The

። Heh0:i

read Ih:

£ omits.

entire clause is found in a, save that 9 omits © before Ho. 8 reads Hla; lehCs only.
Sa-m. m reads @4Y; Ei ሰብ3£i 8 Fሳብ3E; 2.
”c omits,
This interpolation appears as above in & ta, or as RW; only in 9 or as HEA oY AN inm or
H2 Ai መ} Rin 6-0,

og agree with 8 save that they omit 8.
U

i 2 prefix ©.

146

መጽሐፈ፡

ወ'ዘዝናም፡
“ሕድወት፣

ዛና

LXXVI ro EX

VI

ወ’ጸናሹዕ፡። ወ'ፎምሰሴ።
11. ወጻማኣክከሳይ፡፣ "ኖሣት;፡ ርትዕት
ዝናም፡ ጠል ሰሳባም። ወ’በሣልስት፣" "ኖሣት፡ ኣንት፡" መንገለ

ድወፀኳ፡፣
ምዕራብ

[ኣን1፤ ታፓጻንን፡ ሰመስዕ፡]" ዴወፀኣ፡ ጻምኔሃ፡ ፲ጃ፡ ወጸስሐትያ፣፤ ወሕሐመዳ፡ ወዝሪም፤
ወጠል፤ ወጸናዙዕ0።'“"
12. ወኣምድሣረ፣ ኣሱ [፱]"“1ፉሰ፡ ኣሰ: መንገሰ፤ ምዕራብ፡።
በ"ቁዳሚት፡” ኖሣት፡። ኣንተ፡። መንኘገለ፡ መስዕ; ወኣምኔሃ፡። ዶወዕኳ፡ ጠል፡።” ወጸስሐትያ፡።
ወ፣ፉር፡ ወሐመዳ፡ ወ።ይደይደሕ።
19. ወኣም፤፡ "ኖሣት፡= ማኣኳከሳዶት፡” ዶይወፀኳ፡።
ጠልi። ወዝናም፤ ወ።ሰባም፡ ወበረክከሻ፣ ወ።“በ።.ደኃሪኝ፥ “ሇሣት፡ ኣንተ; መንገሰ፡ ጸዜብ፡
ዴወፀሓ፡ ኣምኔሃ፡;። የብስ፡ ወ.ድምሰሴ፡ ወ።ዋዕዶ፤ ወሕኾል።
14. ወ“ተፈጻሙመ፡” ዓመ
ወሕክልጹ፡ ጋኃዋሣው፡ ዘጸርባዕ፲ቱ፡ ተጋዋሣወ፡። ሰማይዴ፡ ወዙሎ፡። ትኣዛዞሙ፡ ወሉ”
መቐሠፍተመሙ፡ ወ“ሰሳሞመሙ፡”" ሹስሉ፡፡። ጸርጸዴኩክ፡ ወኢሮፎየ፡ ማቱሰሳ።
ጃጃ. ይጴውዕዎ፡
ሲሰሣፋስ፡። ቁዳማዊ፤። ሰጽባሓዩ፡። ኣስመ፡። ቁዳማዩ;"“" ውኣቱ፡ ወይጴውዕዎ፡። ለኻካልልኣ፡

1 omits.

sg, eBinys0b.

‘"ያm0. #8 read ወማጸኻሳድት፥
ወጻማልaክከሳይት፣ /ወበማጸከባይደ፤
b trans. after CትYOY: 9 omits.

gm, abcdZhioxa omit,

they insert © before Ai

8 reads Hei

Z omits.

ina, aim.

° 2 omits.

5 Interpolated.

5 dg omits.
BY

5

ል;

ወሐይወ;

5m. gu, 8 prefix ©.

BcdfRIoxyaB read ቢልስ;

trans. after DAS.

15 A gloss.

sa ‘OROIES,

gu read ASA):

። ወማጻክሳባዪት፡ ።።፣8። ወበማጻክከላድት፤ Sረፃ/oas
* ። omits. ey omit next eight words through hmt.
8 adds AY:
7m. So also g/u save that

#m,B.

7 9 reads AY;

0 g reads PARE:

read ASA):

5 9 reads መስ;

wu omits.

6-6 add ታጺንኽ ሲ አኋ aባዛ ታጺንንጌ
ወጻምኔሆመሙ፡ ያ ወኣምኔሁ፣ ። ወኣምኔሆን፣

mu reads H.

gu

1 gu omit.

5 9 reads መOራብ;
™# 8. my read
= 9 trans. ater ወጸስሐ”. 8 adds ወዝናም

a omits next ten Words through hmt.
25 g trans. after parC
8 Fm omit.
5 mu, F trans. after IAN”.
0 9, # read ማጻከሳዊት፡
2 # prefixes ©.
adds by:
5 b omits.
Sig. iB omits;
Fm.

tu, B omit.

a7.

cx 0ራ4ብ:
5 w# reads ©.

9, 13-0 read YR

7 97 omit,
። ማጻክሳዪት
5 gw omit.

05 ትYፈጸ;

7 @ reads

JPY; H. After the analogy of lxxvii, 1, 2, 3 we should expect JAYS = dyke
= ነገ here. If so the corruption cannot have arisen in the Ethiopic. Possibly the
Greek translator rendered n\n rightly here by epSy, as in Ezek. xhii, 20 (LXX).
From uepey the corruption 6vpSy could arise.

Hence possibly our text.

5 mg read

ዙሱ፡ /ያሸሎመሙ፡
5 m reads ti I fNrws gu omit.
“ 0B. gFmu read
በባሳመ፡
Sapo FDE 9, abcdgekinox,ays omit,
5 mgt B., 2 reads 1EሰትY:
u, a }ፉሰት፣ ነፉስ፡ ከere = ከነገ a5 in lxxyi. 1.
5 9 prefixes A. e reads ቁዳE;
m trans. after next word.

J 8np ey ጽባሓቹ
ስሙ፡

TOES

Seu.

9g prefixes ©.

መ ኣምሥመራቅ፡ ቁዳማዊ፤

# abcdBsiRilnox,ab omit A.

፲Here ጽበሓዊ፡
= ገ.

Observe play on D3,

“ 9 reads ውእቱ

47 gg read ወዴጴውዕ፡

LXXVIL i=.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

147

ጸዜብ፡፡ ኣስመ፡ “ልዑል፡ "ህ፻፡ ዶወርዶ፡፡ ወፈድፉደ፡ ህዩ፡። ድወርፎ፡፡ ቡፉሕክ፤ ለንሲም።
2. ወነፉስ፡፡ ጳምዕፀራብ፡፡ ስመ፡፥ ተንቱ7፡፣ ጻስመ፤ በ“ህዩ; የሕሐፅፁ፡’ ዙሉ ብርሃናት፥ ሰማይ
ወይወርዱ።
3. ወ“ራብ0፤ ነፋፉስ፡ ዘ“ስመ።። መስዕ፡። ዴትከፈል፡። ሠለስተ፡፥ ክፍሰ፡።
ጸሕዲዷ፡"

ኣምኔሆመ፡

ወበ።ፆም፡

ማሣደር;

ወበ።ጸፍሳኝ፤

ሲ“ሰብኣ፡

ወ“ጽልመት፡”

ወ“ካልኣ፡
ወ“ጃ፡

በ"ጸብሕርተ፡።

ወሠልስ;”

ማይ;።

ሕፍል፤

ወበ።ቁላያት፡

በ“ገገተ;።"

ጽፎቅ።

4. ሰብዓተ; “ጸፎባረ፡። ነዋጋኔ። ርጺኩ፡ ኣሰ፡ ይነውሑ፡ ኣምቸሲ፡ ጸድበር፡፤ ኣለ፡ ውስተ
ምፎር፡ ወጻምኔሆመሙመ፥ ይወፀኣ፤ ጻስሐች.ያ፡ ወየገልፍ፡። መዋዕል፡ ወዘመን፤ ወፃንመት።።
5. ቋ“ጸፍሳገ;። ደበ፡። ምፎር፤ “ርጺኩ፣ ዓበይተ” ጻምሸዙሎሙ፡” ጸፍሳኘ፤" ጸዘሐዷ፡
ኣምኔሆመ፡ ድመጽል፡። ጳምዓረብ፣ ውስተ በሕር፡ ዐቢዶ፤ ይክዑ፡ ማዮ።
6. ወ“ኣልኸቱ፡።
ከልዜ፡“" ድይመጽጹ፥

ጓኣምሥራቅ።
ዚጸሆሙ፡

ኣመስዕ፡

7. ወጻለ፣
(ካእሌቱ፡

ባሕር፡።

ወይካዕዉ፡“

ማዮመ፡

ትችርፉ፡ ጸርባዕቱ፡።

“ጻስከ፡

ዶወፀጹ፡፤።

በገቦ፡።

ኣስክከ፡)።

ባሕረ፡።።

ጴርቸራ፡።

በ““ባሕረ፤

መስዕ፡

ወ’ክልሌቱ፡።

ዜጴርትራ፤።

ኣስክ፡ በሕረ”

በ።በሕር፡

ዓቢድዶ፣

1 £ repeats preceding clauses ah; ቁዳማ: ውቲ: ይቆው0ዎ; Ani Rd:
Here RA: = Dn.
= = ©) ገገ» corrupt for ©) AT (a play on iNT) = «the most
High will dwell.

Hence for LCE;

read HEC:

5 m trans. after DO.

See

note 2,
2 a. B reads Ai:
‘gma. 9, a read HምOራብi / ም0ራብ;
B HAO:
7 Corrupt. We should expect AN; Hh Oi
5 omits.
8. af read $500:
7, agce78 read Wi
= gy read pA.
= 9 omits.
BY
# c reads nA;
5 g reads WፍNi ።# መፈ:
s/n
read DR.

7 g reads AEE;

5 # reads pA.

8A.

1 £, a read ብርት;

5 Fm.

5 0 reads 0.

a omits.

ia.

= ረ ወሲ.

27 w omits,

» g reads OA.

0 ag.

Zu, B~a read Yi

a Het;

5 m reads D0. e DA.

5 a,b. B~B read ወበ.

Sau,

3 reads m0.

5 mm, 8. a~m read DኻAA

mn mw reads 1H; NH.
x ZF reads ሰብዓEi
9, 4¢y prefix ©.
5m
BL Fwy
read REMC;
55, 8-1, ድ reads jዋ»ት፣ 9 ነዋሣት'፡ =, 5 ነዋጋች፤፡ /1ዋጋን፡
PB
add ወየሐውር
» BZ. gu read DAY;
» ወለዓመሻ'ኒ፤ / ለዓመት፡ ፣ ወጸመታት
% BH.

a omits.

bcgiloxat.
ጸፍባ7፡

mn reads Di.

7B,

# reads CXhi ዓቢ:

ሪ።/s 85 read በድ;

ay read A&EAJI

= box omit.

59 IF

9 reads DCX; and trans. 00£Y; (sic) afer

Cጺኩ and trans. before £0; ምድር:

ላምሹሱ፡ 5 ወዙሎሙ፡
1 # reads REA;
read #ወጽAi
“
adds ይው
©.

o dg reads

me omits.
= 9 prefixes 0. aefny
4 All MSS. but #, which reads ng

5 gy» read A,
5 መ, 8. ድ reads በሐረ፤ ዜርተራ፡ ያ በሕር፡ ሃ። ባበሕረ፤ ጺርትራ፡
Tbe trans. after £D.
wy
5 e reads AIO: 5 IO; (sic).
" # reads በhC; 9 omits next seven words through hmt. #, # omit next four words
through hmt.
5% Text requires this addition.
5 2 omits.
5 #F reads ዜ#ርYራ
tu RCትYE
= g reads ACO:
= m omits.

148

መጽሐፈ፡

ወ'ይዴሰወጡ።

ርጺኩ፡’

በህየ

በባሕር፡

|(ወ'“ይቤዙ፡፡

ወበምድር፡

ዛኛኖኻ፡

መድበረ።፣)]፣

“ጀበምድር፡፣

LXXVIL ILXXVIT GE
8. ሰብፁዑ።

ወጀበባሕር፡

ዶደሰያተ፡

ፀዐቢዶ።"

ዓበዴት፡

LXXVIIL.

ወ’ጸስማፒቲሀሁ፡። ሲሰፀሕድ፤ ከመዝ፡ ጀ“ጸርያሬመስ፡።” ወካልኣ፡’፡ ተማስ።"
2. ወ“ወርሣ፤
ጸርባዕት፡። ጸስማት፡። ቦቱ" ጀስሙመ፡”" ጸሶንያ;” ወካልኣ፡። ጸጽብሳ፡” ወሣልስ፣ ብናሴ፡።
ወራብዕ፣ ጴራኣ።።
3. ኣሱ፡ ኣሙንቱ፡። ልሌ፡። ብርሃናት፡ ፀበይት'፡ ካበቦሙ፡
ካመ፡”“

ሕበበ፣

ሰማይ፤

ዐሐዶዴዶ፡

ሰብንቱ።።

ወጸምጣነ፡።

ሕክፍሰ፣

ብርሃን፣

ካበቦመ፡”

ሰክልሌሆመ፡

ተዘዴትቹዊሰክ፡።

ቦቱ፡።

ዕፉይ።።

4. በክበበ፡”

ኣምወርሣግ፡ተ

ወመስፈርተ፡።

ችትትወደዴ፣ ኣስከ፡ የሐልፍ፣ ሳብዕ፡።። ክፍሰ፡ ፀሐዶዴ።
5. ወዩዐርቡ፣፡ ወዴበውጹ፡”
ንዋግወ፡ ምፀዐራብ፣ ወየጸውዱ፤ ኣንት፡ መስዕ፡ ወኣንተ፡ ንዋሣወ፡፤ ምሥመራቅ፡ ዶዴወፀዙ፡ ዲበ
ገጻ ሰማይዴ።
6. ወሰበ፡ ዴትጌንሣጸ፤፡ ወርሣ፤ ያስተርዒጺ፡ በሰማድዴ፤ መንፈቀ” ሰብዕት።"
ia. 9g trans. before Nyt:
8 omits.
2 miu, 8, £9 read Rw;
5 0 reads DYE;
« 9g, 0p omit.
፥ # reads ዴብ;
5 B. Z/read ምAብዳei
mm Aé (sic). 9 reads mብደረi
። ብራ
7 Clause in brackets interpolated.
‘Sa-mtL m8 read ሰዓ: or ሰቡ0; ! ሰቡ0; = inserts ወርኩ before ሰቡ3;
2
prefixes ©.
1 S50 BcgFIoxyap, and 5 save that it trans. g after በድር:
Thus according tos (PEC: occurs twice together. Other MSS. based on such a text
could easily omit one of them, and this is actually the case in aeBén which otherwise
agree with BcgFioxyay.
The text followed above may be supported by fagsiees
vill. 29 which speaks of «five great islands, which apparently are located in the
Mediterranean.
On the other hand it is strange to find a~m reading ሰብ0; OAR;

በባሕረ ጴርትራ፡ (ሌርትራ፡ 8, ዚርትራ፡ ያሳ.
i5 conflate, based partly on a and partly
on 8. ፪ በምድር ወጀበባሕረ፤ ዜርትራ፡
nag, eB
9, Beh omit.
sf. Other
MSS. read ARNE:
im, c/Bkinox,a. Dn iN = ight of the sun.” #, apdesByy
rad RርያCሌስ፡

7 ሌጴመያሬስ፡ /ukC".

“au. u,3read nN

ag -BcHBInOXyD.

BOFIRInoBw
XB read +Nስስ: (NN; ¢). Corrupted from WS or from nis (Hallévi).
io Fu. mgh Bi read DA. 7A.
read ስመት
135 #8 reads Rp

(FHalléviy.

# reads RN

2 Rስንe:

5g.

Corrupted from n335.,

nes"l3.

Zu read በsሴ;

B reads ORPMLPs
Zu read 0+ti 5 03;
a corruption of the latter.

7 m reads NCNOE:
18 iu, ይ. mgB-h
0 e omits.
a miu, BE
From ni NEN

<፣ AO};

m reads NAA;

5 From nis.

5 gJenoyB read nk
/w, 8 AA:

25 # omits.

“not.

From

7 Bux omit,

5a,

=» a. 8 omits. a~u add here hm: በበ; ሰ:
"not
x B reads ወበበ; ። Anበበi Possibly the text is
5 #5, #9 read ሰብ01Y:

Other M55. %.

Perhaps we

should read AOE:
3
reads Hደትወሰni x omits. If text is right emend
ኣምወርኝ፡ into ለወርኝ፤
# b adds ካፍሲ፡ ብርሃን፡ # omits.
gm. 95, 8 read
ወበመስፈርት፡ ። በመስ".
5 m reads ሰ);
5 w omits. B adds ስ
5s # reads 0.
5 @ prefixes ©, and thus makes mY subject of ይhውy;
Hi
Z reads ሰብዕ0ተ፣ 5። 5. 5 ሰብዐ፡

LXXVIIL. 6-9.

ኳፎ፡፡

መጽሐፈ:

ሄኖካ:

[ብርሃን፡ ይክከውን፡ ቦቱ፣ ሹሱ፡|። ጸመ

149

“ዐሠውር፡ ወረቡዕ፡፡ ዴፈጽም።

ብርሃኖ።

7. ወመጀቸሣምስት፡፡ ብርሃን ዴትወደይዴ፡ ውስቱታ፤ ጻስከ፡ “ዐውር፡ ወኃሙስ፡፡ ዶትፈጺጸም፡
ብርሃ ዚጸሁ፡፥ ሰ“ትኳምርተ፡፡ ዓመነ፣ ወ"ይከውንገ፤ ሰ"ትሣምስት፡
ወይከውኽ፣ ወርሣ፡
በ"መንፈቀቁ፡ ሰብዕ; ጸፎ።
8. ወበሕጺጸ፤ ዚጸሆ፡ “በቀዳሚት ዕለት፡። የገጽጽ፡። ዐሠርቱ
ወጸርባዕች፣ ጻደ፤ ብርሃኔ" ዚጸሁ፥ ወበሳኒታ የሐጽጽ፤ ፀሠርተ፡ ወሠለስት፡ ጻደ፤ ብርሃኘ፤"
ወበ:

፤፲;" ዩየኝጽጽ፡

ጀየሃጽጽ፡

በፀሠርገ፡

ወኳልሌ፡"

ወበ“ራብዕት፡"

ፀሠርት፡

ወጸሐዶደ፣

ካፍለ፡

ወበ

ዐሠርተ ካፍሰ፡ ወበ“ሰድስት፡። የኝጽጽ፡” ትስዓጎተ፡ ካፍለ፡ ወበ*“ሳሰብዕኘ። የኘጽጽ፡

ሰመንት፤ ክፍሰለ፡ ወበ“ሳምንት፡።” የኘጽጽ፤ ሰብዐት፡“ ወበ“ታስዕት፡። የጎጽጽ፡ ስድስተ፡።
ወበ“ዓሥርት፡። የንጽጽ፡ ገምስተ፡" ወበዓመርት፡፥ ወጀየኝጽጽ፡ ጸርባዕተት፡” ወበሂወ“ክልሌ፡”

የንጽጽ፡። ሠሰስት፡። ወበዓሥር፡ ወኝሣልበ፡። የጎጽጽ፡ ክልሌተ፡። ወበንሥመር፡ ወራብዕ፡ የገጽጽ፡
መንፈቁ፡። ሰብዐቱ ኣደ” ሹሱ፡። ብርሃኒ፤ ወ”በ“ዓመር;» ወ“ጋምስት;* ዕለት፥ ይትዌዊዳኣ፡
ዘ“ተረፈ፡ ኣምዙሱ።
9. ወበ“ጸውራሣ፣ ጳመሙራት፡ ይከውን“ በበ;። ጀወሄመዋዕል፡

tau.

wfe8 read AE; and thus make ACY}; dependent on it.

2 T have

bracketed this clause as a dittographic rendering of nMnpoi T9 ቁés (or እnipograt)
which the translator renders by eR:
ACY; a few words later.
#1 inserts

© before ACY
For AC m reads AብCYSY:
For tt; which gms ass read,
g reads #N; but au omits together with EF: and 8 trans. after ጽም
5 at,
u# reads DR:

3 00.

“ZF BJHBu.

ዓሥር፤ ወ( + በ ።)ረቡዕ፡

m reads qwrt: ወረቡ0i

° g reads Y&R:

# IB. 7/5 read

8 adds WN which it has transferred

from before Roi
¢ gu,8. £ reads YY; » ሠAስE: Y»ጋምስት; / ሠለስተ ትሣምስተ;
7 Jn read RYO
Sag, ef # reads 0wC:i ወJመhi
8~«/ 0wC: ምስ;
2 m reads YAY; H.
10 0,8 read H.
nag. 9,8 omit.
5 # reads 0, any

omit.

#2. m#8 ሰብ0Yi

Other MSS. £. Ver. 8: the forms which the numbers

take in the different MSS. in this verse are numerous, but as they imply no Variation
in meaning they will only occasionally be registered.
a s# omits.
» g omits.

1s gu omit. Zu add NE:

ia.

ያሣልስት፡

። ሣግልስቱ

mL

read 60;

8 adds t@h08;

ሰስ
=a omits.
tu, B-Bcgiloxa ሰም
= /u. # reads 0wCY;I
B~< g1o add EA
words through hmt,.

ያngu mit:

9,8 omit.

# reads nN

a 8. መፃ/u read Jምስት'፡፥

8 ኃምስ፡

9 ማልስ:

nag.

9,8

5 a. B reads

=a.

B reads ሰብ0i
= F9, Jcdgiox,a. m reads ሰYE:
= 9, 8 add ክፍሰሲ፡ ("6% 9).
7 au, #,l8 read ታስ);
m reads CE
8 ዓር:
ጋ ፉ ያመፀ ራብዕት፣
58.

mF. # reads WANE:
5 B~8 Ino add ፍሰ

5 9 reads መiንፈY;

ሠ ወጂ. 9 ወበሳብ0ት፡

5 ZF. m reads መስቱ:
Other MSS. &.

7 ደ።.

Other MSS. &.
a c omits next four
5 m reads DH.
#L B reads Eg.

5 # and B (%Y. £m read ወሰብ0Y (YY; 5).

ያያ 8 read ኣድ;

against a.

5 B omits.

ጋምስ፡ 8%.
SF g/u, Bi,

5 eBp read ©.
5 w reads 0,
m omits. 8 reads 0. # HO;

o gFmg.

9 adds 005

# reads ዓሥርት:
9 omits.

81.

8 B prefixes
"F.

mai read

«4 9 reads ይhውé;

150

መጽሐፈ፡

ለወርሣ፤ “ወቦ፤ ጸመ፡ ፳'ወሰመን፡፡
ይትወደይ፡፡
ዘመኔ

ብርሃን:

ዘ"ተኘገውር፡

ውስ1፡
ወርሣ፤

ወርሣ፡
ብርሃኔ"

ሄኛኻ፡

XXVIII, 915.

10. ወኻልኣጻት፡ ሥርዓተ;፣ ጸርጸዩኒ፤ ጽዙራጴል፡፡ ሶበ
ወኳምኝበ፤

ይትወደይ፤

ዚጸሃ፡ ትወዲዷ፡ በቅድመ፤

ኣምፀሕይ።፣

11, tN;

ፀሐዶደ፤ ኣስከ፡ ፲ወ፱“መዋዕል፡

[ይቸፌጸም፡ ብርሃና፡|። ወሰበ፡ ይውዒ፡፡ ሹሴ፡። ይትፌጸም፡ ብርሃኒ፡" ውስተ፣ ሰማይዴ።፣
12. በ“ቁዳሚት፡ ዕለኝ፡ ሠርቁ፡" ትሠመይ፡ ኣስመ፡ በይኣቲ፡ ዕሰኝ፥ ዴይጎገሣኳ፡ ሳዕሴሃ፡
ብርሃን።”

13. ይትፌጸም”

መሥመራቅ፡።
ዐሐይ፡

የ0ር7፡።

በሴሲት፣

በቅድሜሁ”

ጥንቁቁ”

በዕሰ1፡ ዶወርድ፣ ፀሐይዴ፡ ውስተ

ወ“ያበርህ፡”"

ወ“ይትረጸደ፡።

ወርሣ፤

ወርሣ፡”

በዙቡ፡፤

“በቐድመ፤

ሴሲ”

ዐረብ፡ ወኳም፤፡

ወ።ኣስከ፣

ፀሐይ።።

ድሠርቅ፡

14. ኣምኝበ፤”

ዴመጽኣ፡”። ብርሃን” ሰወርሣ፤ ጻምህዩሂ፡። ካዕበ፡ የሕፀፀ፡። ኣስከ፡። ዴትቹዊዳኳ፡።”
ብርሃን” ወዩየገልፍ፡ መዋዕሰ፡ ወርሣ፡ ወዴዶነብር፡ ካበበ፡ በከ; ዘኣንበሰ፤ ብርሃን።

ዙሱ፡።
15,

ወሠለሰስት፡

ዚጸሆ፡

ወርኝ፡ ይገብር፡

ጸመዋዕሲ፡”" ወ“በጸዝማ፤።

ዚጸሆ፡።

ሶበ፡;። ፓሣጻጺት፤"

1 Such seems to have been the original text. # reads DበበRaoi
Here Sao; is
simply Rani which should be read before K, and Qf a corruption of 0 (so m9, 8),

owing to 00 in preceding clause. m reads hi ቢNራi
9 i Ro; 00; 8.
100i Ri ኣሪ ። ጸመ; ፳. 8 ወቦ፡ LW; ጸመ፤ ፳.
። 9 reads Oy.
°/ g-cd/ioy.
fF reads ኻት
mn, cg//o xa nARYi 5 ወnልጸY: = ኻል:
«mB,
#2 reads YሠCYi

u ዓሥርት;

91.

5 9.

Other MSS, ጽር

5 g omits next

five words through hmt.
58. ያመዞ ead ጳምፀበሕሐዴ፣
ያ ኣምጸባበሕዩቹ፡
ሠ ጻምጽበሕ፤ ይወፀልኳ፡
m0, 8. gu read tt
2 m, 8. a~m read Hy;
10 9 reads AY:
acc. after TYO#i

xag. Acc. of limitation. ACYY: could also be taken as the
9 prefixes Of.
Bn prefix 0.
5 prefixes ©.
POI

m/ read RCE:

ACE:

But the numbers in the text may represent ordinals.

5 Bracketed as a dittography from the next clause.

B reads ት"
clause.
ወስ

ብC" ውስ; ሰድ:

For &Y&" AC", which a reads,

This further addition is also drawn from the next

B omits next five words through ht,
5 g reads ብCYS
7 9 omits.

F reads pa
5 0 reads
5a, B~gy read ©. dy omit.

» reads wey; 9 wCY:i
"mn omits.
0,8 prefix.
m8. a~m add
At:
= omits.
#9 reads YC;
=u omits.
= m adds Peበርy; በሌሊት:
7 aw mw, B omit.
5 mp B-a. gw, a read ዴትOEE:;
ሰፀሓይ፡
mM en prefix ©.
Fm FBIRIno0X,ab.

sag.

9B read ACYL

wu trans. before N00;

= u reads ©.
5 mm reads ©.

5 9 reads በድ;
9h abcde read AA

1 9 reads RYY00:
55 0 reads ዴት OA);

# ©Ot300; and
i a, bx omit.

Sm, g/0yab. 9% B-g/0ya6 read ACYL: u omits.
» dy read ni
"8-4.
Zu read በoዋON: m9/ mPOA; dg omits together with next ten words.
1 8 omits.
52. mgyw, B~ako read በHoyi asoas Hoy:
# reads HAY: w omits next
three words through hmt., 3 omits next four words.
“20, m reads በ0: =, 8
omit. g omits next two Words.
Smt,
gu, B omit together with next two words.

WHT

EE XXX

መጽሐስፈ፡

ህሄኛኻ፡

151

ዴገብር። ሠሰስት። ወርኘ፡ ዶገብር። በበ'ጀወትሱዕ፡። መዋዕል፡ ኣሰ፡ ቦሙመ፡፡ ዶገብር፡
ፓታሓጺጸጴጺተ፡።፡ ዚጸሆሁ፡ በ'ዝመን፡ ቁዳማዊ፡" ወ“"በኖሣት፡ ቁዳማዊ፡ በ"“መዋዕል፡ ጀወኛወጃ።
16. ወበ“ዝመኔ" መኻባጹጽ፡ ሂ“ወርኘ;። ያስተርዉ፡” በበጸመዋዕል፤ ወ“ጀ"ወርኘ፡"" ያስተርዉ፡
በበ; ጀ"ወተሠውዕ፡

መኖዋዕል።

17. ቢ“ዜሲኝ፥

ያስትርጺ፡”

በበጀከመ፤

ብኣሲ፡

ወመዓልተ፡”

ከመ፡ ሰማይዴ፡።” ኣስመ፤ ኣልኳ፡ ምንትኒ” ጸልባቲ፣ ዘኣንበሰ፡ ብርሃ። ዚጸሃ።።
LXXIX.
ወድኣላኬኒ፡ ወልድሂ; ዙሎ። ጸርጸዴኩከ፣ ወ“ትፈጸመት፡” “ሥርዓት፣፥ ሹሱ፡። ከዋክብተ”
ሰማያት”
2. ወ።ጸርክዩኒ፡ ሹሉ” ሥርዓተመ፡ “ለጻ ኣንት፡” በሹሰ፡ ዕሲነ፡። ወበዙሲ፡፤።
ዘመኝ;። ዘበ።ሥልጣን፡።“ ወበዙሰ፡። ዓመኝ፡ ወበመሙጻጽ፡” ወበትጻዛሽ፡።” በዙ” ወርግሣ፤
ወ“
ሰንበት“
3. ወሕጻጺ፡ ወርሣ፤ ዘ“ይዶትገበር፡። በ“ሰድስት፡። ኖሣት፡። ጻስመ፤
በዛቲ -ኖሣት፡። ሰድስት ይትፌጺጻም፡። ብርሃ ዚጸሆ፡“ ወ“ኣምኔሁ፡። ይከውንገ፣ ርጻበሰ፡”
ታሕጻጺች'።”

4. (ወታወጻጹት”)

ኣስከ፡;” ይትፌጸም”

ዘ“ዴትገበር፡

በኖሣት፡።

ቁዳሚት፣

በዘመኔ

ዚጸሁ፡

መዋዕል፡ ጀወኛወጂ፡በ።ሥርዓተ፡። ሰንበ “ጀወጀ፡ ወ“ኻልሌቲቱ፡ መዋዕል።

1 a, Save that 9 prefixes ©. Hence all the members of a originally contained the
clause omitted by B,
5 8 prefixes ©.
5 g prefixes ©. mg add han;
* 05

read 0.
5 m reads ታስ);
5 c omits.
7 LB. a-# read ገብ;
$s 0,
Other M55, ታሐጻAY;
5 9 reads ©.
10 # omits next two words through hmt.
g omits.
5 g omits, # reads ©.
5 /u add HRW
vB. a reads DC;
5 9 prefixes ©.

mx omit next three words through hmt.

15 2 omits,

g reads Bi

1 ሠለስቱ
7 # omits to በቢ inclusive through hmt., but # adds in margin.
!5 9 reads 00.
5 መ reads ታኸትርA
0 wu, B~Bn. mph read መዓል
g, #1 በመዓልት፥፣
= 0 prefixes ቢ.
= Gcgsia., ah cg8la read Yi
=m
reads LAy;
4 ዞ 8 add ማቱሰሳ፡
5 8 trans. after next word.
By
gu, B read TR;
7 ፃፉ መ reads ሥመርዓት፣ ዘሹዙሰ፣ ። ሹሲ፡ ሥርንታት፡ 5 ሺ
ሥር0ዐ1፡
5a, DcFBSRInopywxyab.
ade read hዋnብት H.
aH,
wo
read ሰ;
» u omits.
5% 0 omits.
=a. B reads mዋONA:
= 5 pt
5 n reads RH
au. wu reads PH. adgs/hs8inoas Ht; Sx ot;
c Ht;
s reads መል
9 reads በAi
= au, 8 reads ትዛ:
zu omits,

5 8,

au read Difሱ፡

።# ወበዙሲ፡

40 au.

#, 3 read D0.

Sg

B reads ሰንበታት;
5 መይB. ያ ይገብር; ድ’ ድገነብር፡ (si). ያ። ድገብር፡
Bag,
B-I0oxay. # reads ሰበት; / i0x,as ሰEhi m adds ወርሣ;
a w omits next four
words: F omits next three words.
5 m trans. after ሰ.E£Nት'i
5 BX omit next
fourteen words through hmt.
47 @. a reads HAY:
8 128, a reads AP
» B-» add C4; © against a in order to emend mutilated text. See note 51.
adds

a Lost through
0 9. መ,8B"ጺት፡ ድ reads ተሕጸጴት፡ / ሕ98ፀ፡
only ©.
himt, and here supplied (so also Flemming).
= /reads £Yፈa
= 9 adds aii
“ah adgéfBiRInoyab. 8 bcx read 0.
5m reads ር3Y; HCY
5 mg (1 0&5 ወ»ምስቱ; ©), 5. # reads ORE

# RoE:

152

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛሄኛኻ፡

TRXXRIR SRNR

5. የጽጽ፡ ኣምፀሕይደ፡ ወሰሥርጎት፡፡ ከዋክብት ገሙሰ፡። መዋዕሰ፡ በ"ዘመን፤ ጸሐዱ፡፡
ጥንቁቁ፡ ወሶሰበ፡ ዴትፌጺጻም፡ “ዝመካን፡ ዘ'ትሬጺ።
6. ከመዝ; ጸርጸያ፡ ወ’ጸምሳል፡
ኣምዙሱ፡
ብርሃን፣ ዝጸርጸዩኒ፡ ጽርሌጴል፡። መልጸኳ፡ ፀቢይ፡ ዘውኣቲቱ፡ መራሂሆሙ።
LXXX. ወበውኣቱ፡ መዋዕል፤ ጸውሥጸኒ፡ ጽዙርዜሌል፡"’ መልጸ፡ ወዶቤሲ፤፡ 1ኛ; ጸርጸዴኩክ፡፡
ዙሉ“ ሃኖኳ፡። ወስ
ከሠትኩ፡ ሰከ፡ ትርጸየዩ። ሲዝ፡ ፀሐዶ፡ ወሰዝ፣ ወርሣ፡" ወሰጻሰ፡
ይመርሣዎሙ፡ ሲ“ከዋክብተ፡ ሰማይ" ወሲሰ“ዙሎሙ፡፡ ኣሰ፡ ዶመዶጥዎሙ፡
ፃብሮሙ፡
ወጸዝማኖሙ፡"

ወ“ሙባጺሆሙ።”

2. ወ“በ።መዋዕ0ለ፡

ጋጥጻን፤ ክረማት፥።

ወ።ዘርጸ፡። ዚጸሆመ፡
ወዙሱ፡።

ፃብር፡፡ ዘሄበ፡ ምድር፡

ወጺያስተርx፡”

ወዝናም

የንጽፉ፡፥።

ይክከውን፡ ዳጋራዩ፡;። በ“ምድሮመ፡፥

ወበወፍሮሙ፡።

ይዴትመዩጥ፡።

ሲ"ጸዝማኖመሙ፡”

ይትክሳባኣ፡።

ወሰማይድ፡ ፓቅውም።።
3. ወበውጻቲቱ ጸዝማን፤ ፍሬ፤ ምድር፤
ወጺዴበፉል፡

ደሓራዊ።

ይከውን

በዘመኒ፡

ወፍመ፡ 08; ዴትክሳኣ፡ በዘመኔ

ዚእጸሁ።

4. ወወርኝ፡ ዴቐልጥ፡ ሥርዓተ፤”

ወጺይትችረጸይ፡ በዘመ፤፡ ዚጸሁ።፣
iat

#, B prefix pH.

5 Fmended from በ*C3Y;

በሥርዓ1;፤

Dx ወር" and » AC".

preposition

in an enumeration~—in

Dp. 3o8 (rst ed.); p. 347 (2nd ed.).

of a m9, 8-5.

mg read

For the above use of A replacing another

this instance

Agn—see

Dillmanns

Grammar,

Our text here identifies the solar and the sidereal

year, as in Ixxiv. 12.
5 m reads JምhስYi
‘8. Zmያw read Hoy B (Rሐዱi mw).
‘omits.
omits.
5 gt Bx. guread oni Yi). » በዝony; » Hoi: H.
5 9 read ጽዙራዜስል፡
5 ehi read WH.
10 0b read KራዜAi
g omits.
um
gw, 8B omit.

15 wu reads eli

4 au, w omit.

5 8 prefixes A.

two words.

15 # reads hዋnብት:

መኻጸቲፒሆው፡

2 g omits.

=u.

9 reads YR

mn,

m omits.

3 mg, 8.

Zu

15 # reads CRF
5 ድመ

= Pu.
tሐጽራ

/ዳሣራዊ፤ ። ደጋራዊ፤ መ, 8-/ read ደጋራቹ;
3 au, 8 reads DበaotCaws # omits.

read RCAth:

7 Bx omit next

add ወይመይዴጥዎሙ፡

Other MSS. ራት
= g trans. after HAP

0 ## reads

sgu prefix ©.
SDF

n trans. after ቢሮ
= 8, areadsሲ
5 ፀ reads ሲዙሱ፡ ፡ ወበዙሱ፡
5 8, au

read £መይT:; / adds &ናpሁi «omits.
“m8. 9, dread ያስትርጺ፡ /። ያስ"
iat
# 8B read 0. B omits.
5 a. 8 reads Hav
5 9 reads ድኻ
5 ነ, ይB-፤ ያያ/1read ትቁውም፡ ። ይቀውም ፣ያቁውም፤
= ያ።, 8/n መይ 6-ቄ/።
ead ጋራቹ፡ 9 ዳጋራዊ፡
% 0,8 read ሥርዓተ
7 7 reads LAF

LXXX, BLXRXXL. I.

5. [(ወበጻማንቱ፡

መጽሕቷ፡

መዋዕል፡

ድትረጸይ፡

ዛኛካ፡

ተሰማዶ፡።

188

ወዴበጽሕ፡

+ 0ባር፡፡ በጽንፈ፡ ሰረገላት፡

ዐቢድ፤ ሰ'ምዕራብ፡]፡
ወዴበርህ፡ ፈፎፉደ፡ ኣምሥርዓጊ

ብርሃን።
6. ወ'ይሥሕቲቱ፡ ብዙጋን፡ ጸርኣስቲሆመሙመ ሰ“ክዋክብት።

ወ፡ኣሱ፡፡ ይመይጡ;"
ወጺይደት'ረጸዩ፣

7. ወሱ፥

ፍናዩሆሙ፡።

በጸዝማ፤፡።

ሥርዓት;

ወሕሲናሆመሙመ፡፥

ወፃብሮመሙ፡

ዚጸሆመ፡

ከዋክብት"

ተኣዛዚ:

ኣጻሰ፡ ተጸዘዘ፡

ሎሙ"

ዶትፀፀው፡፡ ሳዕለ፤ ጋጥጻን

ሰኣጻሲ;። ዲደበ፡ ምድር፡፣

ዶስሕቱ፡

ፍናጥቲሆሙ]”

ደቤሆሙ፡"

|ወይትመየጡ፣

ኣምሰሉ

ወዴስሕቱ፡። ወይመስልዎመሙመ፡። ጸማልክተ።
8. ወዴበዝሣ፤ ሳዕሌሴሆሙመ፡። ኣኩይ፡።
ወመቅሠፍት፡ ደመጽኣ፡ ደቤሆመሙ፡።
ከመ ታሕኾል፡። ዙሎ።።
LXXXI.

ወዴቤለኒ፡

ወ’ጸንብብ፡ ዘጽሑፍ፡

*ነጽር፡

ሄኖሕ;

ዘፀፍፀፈ፡”

ሰማዶ፡

ደቤሆሙ፡”

, mg, 8. Zu read በሰ;

Text may be corrupt.

The Greek translator read

Din for ENON and ay) « hunger’ for 33y ‘evening’ (Halléviy.
sag.

9,1 B read 0.

2 See note 1.

«+ Bracketed as an early interpolation in the Hebrew text.

When these clauses are removed, verses 4 and 5 form a tristich relating to the moon.

Tt will be observed that before and after— verses 3, 6 and 1~—are tristichs.
° 9 omits.
5 F9,05. Other MSS. hዋnብ
7 9°. Other MSS. YAH: Beer conjectured this
text. See Kautzsch’s Apoc. u. Pseug. 11. 285 note.
s /u omit,
? wu reads AA; and

omits next three words and following ©.
read &SPtሆPa

' 9/1 read LTP

n e/hssnyw

3 a reads NE:

# mg

5 af, B-cdelnay.

g,cdeinay

read £YOg: X gives both readings. 9 prefixes H.
7 mw reads 0.
ዴነብፉ፡
» # reads £0; ምድር:
5 Bracketed as an interpolation.

5 IB add
# also omits.

Fu read CY;

5 mg, e read በHaoy;

። C3

un omit.

BR.

If the clause referred to men, it could only according to Biblical usage be commendatory.
If it refers to the stars, it breaks the connexion.
When removed it

leaves a tristich.
5% gu omit.

Iu.
ኘa-g.

For &éዋP'tPaw (of Zt, n) m, 8H read &SEሆPaw; and 9 &SEሆ;
= 9 reads ወይመይጥዎሙ፡፥
/ ወይብልዎመሙ፡
= m reads AOA;

mB-X read NE;
9 reads ታሎ

0,6 ሹኵሎመሙ፡

9 Nt:

5 efhn read ANP;

3 ያሕጕሎሙ

5 a9.

5 a save that im inserts A before #2;

save that gy omit 8 before ¥" and that n omits ጽሐፈ;
g omits next four words.
X

9 reads ለሱ

s nu omits,
5-05 ለሎ

8 reads A¥ኖN: iC: ጽሐፈ

0 m reads HAA;

PH:

1584

መጽሐፈ:

ወ“ጸኣምር፡

ህዛኛኻ፡

EXXON

ሹሉ፡ ጸሕደ፤ ጸሐደ።

2. ወነጺርኩ፡፡

ሰፀፍፀፈ፡።

ሰማይ፣

ወጸንበብኩ፡

ሹሎ፤

ዘጽሑፍ።

ወጸኣመርኩ፣

ወጸንበብክዊ፡ “ሰለመጽሐፈ፡ ዙሱ፡፡ ምፃባሮመ፡ ሰሰብኣኳ፡ ወሹሱ፡፡ ውሱደ፡
መድር፡ ኣስከ፣ ትውልደ ዓሰም።
3. ወኣምሶቤሃ፡’፡ በረኻዎ፡ ሲኣፓዚኳ፡ ዐቢደ፡። ሰንገሠ፡። ስብሐት ሰዓሰም፡።
ቫሉ

ሹሎ፡

ዘዲሂበ፡

በከመ ገብረ

ፃብረ፡፡ ዓሲም፡።

ወ“ሰባሕኩ፡።

ወባረኩ፤

ሥጋ

ጻኘዚጸ፡

በ"ት'0ዕኘሥቱ

“4ዷበ; ውደ

ጸዳም፡።፡።፣

4. ወጻምኔሁ፡፡ ኣቤ፡
ብፁዕ፡ ብኣሲ፣ ዘይመውት፤።” ጻድቅ፣ ወር
ወሰ

መጽሕፈ፡

በመዛ፤

“ተጽሕፈ

ደቤሆሁ፡

ወጺድት'ረክብ፡። *0ሰ1፡ ሹኔ።።
5. ወኣመሙንቲቱ፡ ጸቅረቡኒ፡። ሂ።ቅዲሰን፡ ወጸንበፉኒ፡“ ውስት፡ ምድር፡ በቅድመ፡። ኖሣ1፡
ቤት።ዩ፡ ወደቤሱኒ፡። ጸይድፎዕ፡። ዙሉ ሰማቱሰሳ፡ ወልድክ፣ ወጸርዉ፡ ሲ"ዙሎሙ፡። ውሱ.ፎክ፡
ከመ፡ ጺ“"ይጸድቅ፡። ሹሱ፡። ዘሥጋ፡። በቅድመ፤ ኣግዚጻ፡ ጻስመ፡ ውኣቱ፣ ፈጠሮሙ።
6.

“ዓመት፣

ጸሐደ;።

ነቕፎገክ፡።”

+ m reads RAPE

9 reads ፀEፀፈi
add

Whi

ወስቴ

ዙሉ፡

c fh
ዙሱ፡

ወኢፎክ፡”

2, B~a add WN

5 በጸፍጺጸፈ፡

ድ። read ሰመጽሕፍ፡

በኘንበ፡።“

ኣስከ፡።

ካዕበ፡።

a omits next three words.

« 9 trans. after BN WN:
9,5 ሰመጽሕፍ፡

ትጴዝዝ፡"

ወዙሉ፡

sag.

5 9 omits.

ዘጽሑፍ፤

ውስቱቴታ፡

ሰሰብኣ፤ = G፤8እ0v

@ Yeyparrat

€y avr®

$ mf

ፐo this 6

The original text appears to have been ሰመጽሐe:

ምፃባሮመ፡

ከመ።

mdyra

Ta

HXሑé;
fpya

Ty

Gvgporey = DINH "wyio-o3 3 bina ግwN Jeb.

7 mw omits next five words,

sau. B reads DN;
? ai8pw prefix H.
u 8 omits.
2 m prefixes ©. 9 reads AY:
read HAYA:
Sc omit.
# 05 read Yd;

0 a7. 9,18 read AH: hቤy:
AIHA:
5c ን;
5 a, Gc
5 a7. 9, 8 read ወሰባሕዎ፡

15 F/u.

m9, 8B read AATHA;

7 a9.

9, 8 read

B-/8፣I»0y,a8 read £0: ውደ

ዓሰም

ትውልደ

read ወይዴኣ፡ Lዜ፡

ዓለም

add AIH:

" a. “5-8

a-g/,

» ውሱ

9/8 read HA.

/ reads በ0^ት፡ ሹ".
9 ፲ጋዩ፡ ሳዕሌሆ፡
4 mgt 8.
reads ቅረቡ: ። ACL
write in full ሰብዓE:
8 reads F.
5 dg reads NEO:
= / reads thi

= a-mn.

በኣጻንት፡

FIO

ጁደበ፡ ሹሱ፡ ዓሰም፡
scx ወው

ሂዜ፡

m/s B8 read ወጺYረnበi

። ፈፉበ፡ ዙሱ፡
“ያ.

8

= emu.

“።, 5-*5። ጌጋይ ሳ".* “s። ፲ጌጋዶ፡ በሳዕሴሆ፡
/።, 8 trans. AY" afer ቅዱ.
Su. mg#
5 B omits.
7 bgnxy read ወይቤAL:

omits.

™ a-mB-n.

m reads ይጽድY;

ዛ ድዴጽደቅ፡
= u,8 rag WN
= ። reads ሕያው
=m
9 reads ዓመት Rሐዱ
ሠ, ዓመት ፮. 8-5 8 ዓመት
=» 9/3. ድ።ሣ ad ነሕድኘ፡ መ ሃሕድንኝ፡
5 g reads 30;
7 a. 3 reads ውድ
5 ww omits.
3 Fm trans. A after Yh.
ua omits WY.

0 mf, B~cde.

#reads YAH:

this seems a mistake.

# omits.

9 TSHH:

cys (according to Dillmann) Y&HH: but

TEE

BEXAR NIT 5

መጽሐፈፉ፡

ሄናኻ፡

ትምሀሮሙ፡፡ ሰውሱ.ፎክ፡ ወትጽሕፍ። ሎሙ’
ወ፣በካልልኣ፡፣ ዓም፡ ይነሥጹክ፡’ ጳማኣከሎሙ።"
7. ዶጽና0፡; ልብከ፡"
ኣስመ፡ ኔራን፡። ለኔራን፡ ያዩፎ0፡ “ጽ.ፎቁ፡
ጻድቅ፡። ምስሰለ፡ ጻድፎቅ፡ ዴትፌሣሕ፡
ወዴትጸምኙ፣

155

ወ'ታሰምዕ፡፡ ሎመ፡፣ ለዙሎመሙ፡ ውሱድከ፡፣

በበዴናቲሆሙ።

8. ወ“ጋጥኳ፡'፡ ምስሰ፤ “ኃጋጥልኣ፤ ይመውት"
ወምዩዬጥ፡ ምስሰ፤ ምዩጥ፡። ዶሰጠም።
9. ወኣሰ፡ ይገብፉ፥ ጽ.ፎቁ፡ ይመውቱ በኣንተ፡ ምፃባሪረ፡ ሰብኳ፡
ወዴት ጋብጽ፡ በጻንች፤ ግብሮሙ" ለረሲዓን።
10. ወ“በኣማንቱ፡

መዋዕል፡

ፈጸመ“

ኣንዘ፡ ዴቸናገፉ፡

ኣንዘ፡;። ኣባርኮ፣ ሲኣንዚጸ፡ ዓሰም።።
ኣሱንተ፡።

ሰክ፡

ኣፃኘግር፡

ወጻጽሕፍ፡

መጻጠሕፍቲሆመሙ፡

ሰኣሱ፡

ቸሎመኘ።”

ችሀብ፡ ሰትውልደ፡።

ምስሌየ፡

LXXXII. ወይ:
ሰከ፡።
ዕቁብ፡

ወሸሎሙ፡።
ወል.ፎ፤ዩ፡።

ወ'ቦኣኩ፡

ወድ:

ከሠዥኩ፣

መጽሐፈ”

ኘበ፡” ሰብጻናዩ፡

ማቱሰሳ፡ “መሙ

ሰከ;

ወ“ወሀብዙክ፡”

ጻዴሁ፡

ሰጸቡክ፣፡

ወከመ፡

ዓሲም።

2. ጥበበ፣ ወሀብኩ፡። ሰከ፣ ወ'ለውሱ.ድከ፡። |ወለጻለ፡ ዴክወቱ፣ ሰለከ፡። ውጡደ፣]
ከመ፡ ዩሀ”

ሰበውሱዶመሙ፡።

ሲዛ፡ ጥበብ፡

£በ;። ሕሲሪሆሙ።

3. ወ“ዚይነውመሙ፡፥

ለትውልዳት።

ኣሲ፡" ድዶሴብዉሪ"

1 m, a read YPC

‘£9 tn. Other MSS. YX:

1 have here preserved

the indicative, as the indicative form of the following verb is so strongly attested.

5 # omits next four words,

«4 g omits.

‘ያመ ፣ሮሷd ሰውሱ.ፎ፡

7 # omits.

$f, acge7hs0.

mgt, b-81 read ፓhም0:

5 eh read በልሉ

5 g reads ih:

10 m adds ቢል:

1 m reads Aha;

ጺፎቁ፡ (sic).

ያ ጸጻፎቅ፡ (sic). = ጻድቅ

። ጽፎቁ፡

next two words.
7 Fu.

5 g reads ጨር:

5B,

# reads

14 f, ehy read BTA]:

g omits

15 ይ ረኽ5 read JAY; ይመውቱ

mg, Bread PICs

71 omits.

5

5 u# adds RትtT;
mF omit.

©.

5 F reads RSI]

mn ureads ምስ
1 Fm prefixD.
= a0. 9,8 readqAnYi
Ft m reads
ሉ፡ ኣሎንት፡ ያ ሹሱ፡ ዝንቱ ። ሹሉ 9ዕሪ፣/ዕ x,s ሹሉ ኣሳንት፤ «።/።s። = ጻላንት፡ ሹሉ
4 ዙሉ፡ ኣንት፡ ። ኣሳ" ሰከ፡ ሹሉ
24 Fmf omit. eFhifiy omit next three words
through hmt.
7 #r omit.

gm.
gt, Bread DWN:
reads Ns
5 m reads Uni:
5 9 adds ሎሙ

=
+ tu, 8 read ORጻhፍi
ጥበበ፡ ወልድክ፡
፣/ ሰወልድክ፣፡

reads ለው:
። aዛዛs ወለው

5 ድ reads ትቦ

ና 9 adds ጻስከ፡

n ለትውጨደ፣

» ሰሲትውልደ፤

ዓለም፤

bx ውስተ:

" # reads Ai

uw.

wu omits.
26 ae omits.
20 ያu, 8 add ማቱሰላ፣

£ reads
= m reads UAW:
ድክ፡
5 b trans. after Pt
5 bረያx

ጻባ

9, 8» aዛdዛ ኣስከ፣ ለዓለም

*“ Bc/hx read ዴሌብውዊ

ሲትውልደ፡

ትውልድ

5 0 reads DA;

156

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

TXXXII:S TR:

ወየጻጸጺምሉጵ፡ በ'ኣዝኖሙመ፡ ከመ ደትመሀርኛዋ፣ ሰ*ዛ;፡ ጥበብ
ወት ይደልዎሙ ኣመባልዕት፣ ሠናያት *ሲኣሰ፡ ዶበልፁ፡፡
4. “ብፁንን፡

ጻ.ፎቃን፡

ሹሎሙ፡፡

ኣሰ

የሕውፉ፡

በፍኖተ።

ጽፎቅ፡፡

ወጸልቦመ“

ጋጢጸት።፣

“ክመ፤ ጋጥጻጳን፡፡ በልቁ፡፡ ሹዙሉ፡፡ መዋዕሲሊሆመሙ፡፣ ለዘ፡ የሃውር፡ ፀሐደ፡ በ'ሰማይ፣፡ በጸናቅጽ፡
ዶበውኣ፡" ወይወጽልኣ፡ ሠሳሰ፡ ዕለት፡ ምስለ; ጸርኣስተ፡ ሂ፲ጀ“ዘዝ“ሥርዓተመሙ ለከዋክብት
ምስሰቨኣለሰ፡ ድዶትቹሰኩ፡ ኣሰ፡'፡ ዴሴልዩ፡ ማኣከሰ;"፡ ፱ክፍሰ፡ ዓመት ኣሰ፡ ዶመርሣዎሙ፡
ወምስሌሆሙ፥ ይበውጹ፡ ጸርባዕት፡" መዋዕለ።።
5. በኣንቲጸሆመ፡” ዴጌፃዩ፡ ሰብኣ፡
ወጺየንስብዎሙ፡ ተበሕሐሳበ፡፦። ሹሱ፡። ዓሰም፡ተ። ኣጻስመ፤ ዶ፲ገግድዎሙ፤ ወ“ጴ“ያጸምርዎመሙ
ሰብኣ፡ ፕንቁፃ።፡
6. ጳስመ፡ ሀለዉ፡ በ“ሐሳበ፡። ዓመት ወጸማን፣ ልእኩዓኘ፡ ኣሙንቱ፡ ሰዓሰም፡
ጸሐቲ፡ በቀዳሚት ኖሣት፡። ወ።ጸሕቲ፡ በ“ሣልስት፡። ኖሣት፡” ወጸሕቲ፡ በ*ራብዕት፡። ወጸሐቲ፡
በሰድስት፡፣ ወዴትፌጸም፡ ዓመት;። መዋዕል፡። ሂጀወኗጃወረቡዕ።
7. ወጸማን፣ ነገፉ፡።
ወጥንቁቅ፡። ሐሕሳቡ፡ ዘልኩዕ፡ ኣስመ፡ ሰብርሃናት፡ ወሰጸውራሣ፣፤ ወለበዓሳት፡። ወለካረማት፣።
ወለመዋዕል፡ ጸርጸዩኒ፡ ወነፍሐ፡ ጃቤዩ፡ ጽርሌል፡። 1 ዘጸዘዘ፡” ሎቲ፡" ኣግዚጸ፡" ሹሱ፡
ፍጥረተ“ ዓሰም፤ ሰ"ሕዴዶሰ፡ ሰማዶ።
8. ወስልጣ፤፡“። ቦ፲ቱ፡ በ“"ሌሲት፡ ወበ“መዓልት፡
1 Fg! omit.

2 w omits.

sau, 8,

# reads ብg AE.

mi repeats exactly

the above three words: 9 adds ብፁ” aንhi tN:
,5-# (+‘ብg ሎሙ
¢ u prefixes ©.
° b reads 0, 471i
° » reads REY
"92.
mh
read SLAY
‘af,8. £ reads በዋ;
? u reads ©.
0 m prefixes ©.
u u reads F.
15 # prefixes ©.
5 # writes in full 0ሠCE;i PAY
m reads f and
trans. OwCE:i before RCAስY:
። If and trans. it before AC".
iF
IDB
read H. ss omits.

dreads AYN:

a-m.

Cf. XXX. 11. Zmu, nob read LYAAE
ማኣክከሰ፡ ወማኣከሲ፡ (=/"ሲ;) ሲ (n። omits).

መዋዕል
5 uw omits.

m reads AN;

8 0.

" 0/B-n0.

's 9,8. wu reads ሰማaከሰi Smt
# reads RCብY
0 #8, ay read

= ።u omits. Z9/u add tf;
= dg omits next ten words through hmt.
= Words obelized. Corrupt(?) for it; ሐሰበ; gos So also Beer.

For 3A; 9 reads ሰብA;
= 9 aባባ5 ወጸሕሐቲ፡ በካልኣ፡
0 wu reads Rt: 9,8 omit.
5 gL Fmu read YoY:

25 ma omits.
25 m reads ሲ.
7 ሠ adds ዓሰም: ©.
ማ au, In. w,h read ሣAስi
B-BIn read JAY
1 Foy Bh read ራብዒት ያ። add ወጸሕቲ፣፡ በኘምስት፡
5 reads qoY;

5 a. Breads በመዋOል

a c reads

በሩ
55 m0, 8. ድ/u read ጥንቁቁ;
5 0, B-F ድ reads ወለዘበዓሳኝ፣
በዓሰኝ፡
/u ለበዓሳት፡ / ወበዓ.
“ ያ።. a-።, 8 read ወለክራማት፣
= ያያ read ጽራሌል፡
aefh 8% trans. before pi;
NFmiu,adgigiy,a. 9g reads HRCA: 7/25 0ce/nx
HAHH: oy HAHHi: Text = 9 srerage corrupt for 8 Srérage.
Em, from AY:

Here H..rEi= 4S. HAHH: (or "h:) ሲሊ; . .. በh£A: = ‘whom He hath commanded
For me over the host gives no reasonable meaning.
a m, gI0y omit.

S a,ahi8n,

SY:B:

MHF

Pg omit,

TEady

B~ahrtn read.

"8. ድመ read ቢ.

Ta omits next two words.
“ a-m,.

uD.

3-8 read ወስ:

A.

OA.

TVXRXI SH,

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

157

ውስተ፡ ሰማዴ፤ ከመ፡ ያርጺ፡ ብርሃ፤፡ ዷበ፡ ሰብኣ “ፀሐዩ; ወ“ወርኝ፡፡ ወክዋክብተ፡፡ ወ“ዙሎሙ፡፡
ስልጣናተ፡፡ ሰማድዶ፡። ኣሰ፣ ዴትመየጡ፡፡። በኻበቦሙ።
DINE
SEALS PEI
ከዋኻካብት፡ ኣሰ፡ የዐርቡ፡።
በመካናቲሆሙ፡“
ወበጸዝማኒሆሙ፡”
ወበበዓሳቲሆሙ፡
ወ“ቢ“ጸውራኒሆሙ፡፣
10. ወ።ኣሱ፡። አስማቲሆመ፡ ሰኣሰ፡ ይመርሣዎመሙ፡ ሲ"ኣለ፡ “0ቅቡ፡
ወ“ይበውጹ፡ በጸዝማ፤፡ ዚጸሆሙ፡

ወ“ቢ“ዜያቲሆሙ፣

“ኣሰ ይድመርሣዎመሙ፡

በመካናቲሆመሙ፡” ወበሥርዓታፓቲሆመሙ፡፡

ወበጸውራኒሆሙ፡'፡ ወበስልአጣናቲሆሙ፡።

ወበ ምቐዋማቲሆሙ።

በመራሕያኒሆመሙ፡። ይዴበውጹ፡። ቁዳሚ፡። ኣሰ; ዶሴልዩ፡ ዘክፍሰ፡። ዓመት
፲ወ፪“መራሕያን;።

፲*ጀ"^ኣሲ፡;

ዘሥርዓታት።

ይፈልጥዎሙ፡

ዴፈልጠጡ፡። መራሕያን;

ኣሰ፤ ይዴሴልዴዎመሙ፡

ሰመዋዕል፡

ሰጸጽውራሣ፡።

ወ።“ሰ። ፀጻለ፣

ዘሦመኳፈልተ፡ ዓመታት።።

11.

ወጻም ፎሣሬወሆሙ፡

ወሰ፡። “ሂጀወቿ“ጸርኣስተ፡

ዶትቹቐሰኩ፣፡

ምስሌሴሆሙ፡።

15. ወ“ጻሙንቱ፡።

“ኣሰ

ጸርኣስተ፡ ሂጀማኣጻክሰ፡

መራኒ፡ ወመራሐ፡። ይትዌሰክ;።” ጀበድሣረ፤ ምቅዋም" “ወመራሕያኒሆሙ፡ ይፈልጡ
13. ወጻ“ ጸስማቲሆመ፡፥ ለመራሐዶያኝን፡“። ኣጻሰ፡ ዴፈልጠ፡ ዘመሕክፈልተ፡ ዓመት ኣለ፡
ሥፉዓን፡ ሚልኪሌጴል፡“ ወ“ህልጻም’ጃሌክ፡። ወ“"“ጃልሌዩል፡" ወናሬመል።“"
14. ወጸስማቲሆመሙ፡

1 £ reads PCAL:

። 9/ read ፀhደ:

+ 74 # read ወ? omits)hዋnብት;

3 F9# read ወር4i

5 9 reads tt

m adds £0; ሰብኣ

° wu reads ስAጣk

7 97 reads

ሰማያት
a omits next two words.
* # reads ይትYOtT:i
/ RYመtMi
* 9 reads
በቢ.
"tu omit.
4 adds CON
= a reads =መC0OY UH.
= 9 reads t0¥0:
nw OCT:

4 i omits.

» Fmt B. 9 reads

ANTS EVP

« OAHiLPa:;

15 reads በዓታ LP; «u omits.
7 mg read RውራDtሆPi
/reads AAS (sic).
u omits.
™ mBnovxyp read DA.
au. u reads AA; LCP;
8 omits.
For AA; of 9, £m read AN;
” m reads ACO: ራAያEሆP ©.
= mn reads
ቀደመ
9 ቀዳሜ
u omits. o adds ድበው
5 ፃ ጻባባ5 ይበውጽ፤ ወ. ። reads
ወኣሰ፡
= # adds ዓሰም፡ ©.
5» Hu, B.
reads mራሕያii
ng ራhiሆPa
5 a reads HCOY
0 5 በC33HY
uw omits.
7 9 reads ለጽውራiሆሙ
5a.

9 reads ©.

§~፣ add gመት'i

፣ ዓመታት

5 Fu.

m reads Ef.

9 FX.

/ሠለስቲቱ፡ ምኣኳት፥ ወስሳ፡ ወጸርባዕቲቱ፡ ምስለ፤ 8 ሂጀወ(
7 + omit ወነጽወፀምስሰ፡
" £ omits.
si m omits.
5 a. B reads QP
5 መ/B. ድ reads Aሰ፡ ድዴፈልጥ፤ 5 ላሰ
ድፈATዎ

u omits.

5a, 8-7.

£ reads መኸፈልቱ:

amu, BD.

m adds 0.

SFmu.

m,ip read mራሐh

7» መፈ:

/°B read DYoራሒ

ዓመት:

57, d omit.

«u reads ራhLPa;

"2,5 omit
3 Fw B-eFh.

™ 8 omits.
mg,eFhy

prefix ©. £ reads PድYዋPNn:
°° 9, a read Pp: © (a omit).
» wu omits. For
ይፈ" reads ያፈ".
«= 9 reads Aሱ; ‘8 Nሱ፡ ኣሙንቱ፤
“as read ሰመራግያኒሆሙ፡

a f= NID» (Schwab 113).

m reads tA”.

/u# tA“.

g ሚnጹAi

8-0

ምልኻካሌል፡ ዕ» ምልካዒል፡
sag, Beso = 25D. g reads VAs ARAN:
፡ ህአምምጴሌሴክ፡ ፣ ህእእጃ". 05 Uእኣምሟሲኻ፡
“ §-aeno = DNNDD (Schwab 175).
ሪu ead ምልዔል፡
a5 "“ቓልየኒል፡
ያ “ስልሌዮል፡
። "ሴሌዬል፡
ያ "ልሌዬል፡

፣ እጺዬስ፡

4“ = NJ).

wu reads SA!

a SA

198

መጽሐፈ:

ህኖ

LXXXII. 4-18,

ሰኣሰ፡ ይመርሣዎመ፡ ጸድናርዜል፡፡ ወ“ጺያሰሰጹል፡፡ ወ“ዜሌሎ’ጃሌል፡፡ ጻሱ፥ ሂጻሰ፤ ዴትልዉ፡
ድሣሬሆመ፡፥ ሲ“መራሕያ፤፡ “ሥርዓታት፣ ወ፩ጀዘይትሱ፡፡ ድሣረጀ፣መራሕያ፤፡። ሥርዓታት ኣሰ፡
ዴተእዉ፡ „ፎሣረ፤ ኣልካቲቱ፡ መራሕያ፤’ ምቅዋማት፡" ኣሰለ፡ ይፈልጡ ጸርባዕት፡ ካፍሰ፡
ሰዓመት።።

15.

በቅድመ፡

ዓመኝ፡።

ቁዳማዊ፣

ይሠርቅ"

ወይመልክ፡

ምልኸያል፡

ዘደሠመደ፡ ስሞ; ተመጻይኒ፡"፡ ወ“ፀሕዴ፡" ወ“ዙሎመሙ፡" መዋዕል" ዘበ“ስልጣሄ ዚጸሆ፡
ኣሰ፡ ድመልካ፡” ፮=ወ*B0ሰት'።።
16. ወኣሰ፡ ትጻምርት፡ መዋዕል፡ ኣሰ፡ ሀሰጪ፡።
ያስተርኣዩ፥ ፈፉበ።። ምድር፡ በ“መዋዕለ፡። ቦልአጠጣ!፡ ዚጸሆ፡ ሀፍ፡ ወ“ሞቅ፡።” ወዛሕን፡።
ወ“ቪሎመ፡። ዕፀው” ይፈርዩ” ወቈጽል፡ ድዴወጽኣ፡ በዙሱ፡ ዕፀው ወ“ማኣረሪ፤ ስርናይ
ወጽጌ፣

ረዳ

17. ወኣሰ፥

ወካልኳ፣
18.

ወ።ሱ፣

ጽጌያት”

ጸስማቲሆመ፡።

ዘዴትዌቐሰክ፡

ካልኣ፡“"

ርኣሰ፡

መራሒ፤

፲ጀስመ፡፥

ፃreaባs ጽልጃሌል፡

2.

ኣሰ፡

በገዳም፡

ወዕፀወ፡፤

መትሕቴሆሙመ፡

ሂሱያስፍ፡።

ዘ“.ድሣሬሆሁ፡።

1 e reads RCSA:

„ያመ

ዘዴደወፀኣጻ፡”

ሰመራሕያን፡።

ወተፈጻመ፡፣

ሄልኣምጃሌሕክ፡“"

9

/። ሌጴሱጃሌል፡

read ዚዩሱስሌል፡

ካረምት፡

ብርከዜል፡

መዋዕለ፣

ዘደጴውዕዎ፡

ይየብሱ፡፡።

ዜልብስዜል፡።

ስልጣፉ፡።

ሰዝ።

ስሞ“

“ፀሐሕዩ፣

/ሃ።, ጺያሱሳሌል፡

5-~a፣n0,25 ጴይሚሌል፡

5 ጺዩሱ".

“0,5 ዚድሱ’ጃዜል፡

፣ ጺዴሱምሌል፡
። ጽዩጃዜል፡
4 ጋ reads ትውዎሙ፡
5 dreads መራኝ}; H, and
omits next four words through hmt.
5 m reads CY; and omits next three words
through hmt. ss omits.
7 greads ድሣeሆi AF.
5 # reads መራ. Yi and omits
next seven Words.
? መ adds ሥርዓታት ወ. ያ reas መራሕያን
10 g reads “YY
u omits.
nu am,
m, B read qo;
15 m, B., am omit.
5 9 prefixes ©.

* Ft B-~a. guread AA;
gt, apefhs kn read ስ
8 Ni
and Beer). m,a read TY
7 a, ak.

B~as read ፀሐዩ:

a Ahi
m= omits.
mu, cg/ovxab.
eg/u( Nu
= 5D ‘southern’ (so Goldschmidt
5 TNL!
abpcqeiginoxs Tመፃis » ትመ
5 g reads WN;

15 au.

8 reads መዋት;

ss omits.

n g reads ©.
9 reads መኩ
= 9 read Yስ3:
5 Blab. Fm read
ጸሕተ ዕሰተ፡ ? ጸሐዶደ፡ ዕለት ።,፣/ 5,8 B0ለት፣
= ። oms.
= ae» ።s read በፉበ፡
5 # reads PY;
TY
7 ua, All other MSS. phHYi
= m omits.
= wu omits
next four words.
0 g reads ቢ. dg omits.
5 mp8. # reads Wሱi AY
w omits.
5am.
B reads AYE:
m omits.
53 መ reads ያብሱ
9 ድየብስ፡
24 Bh omits next three words.
% w reads ለoé“iPawi b41y AለራAPiPi a omits
next two words.
% g/u, Bin = 553.
m, abc dgeFklox,ay read CR;
ያ ባበርኻል፡
7 a~m = NY (Schwab 123) = «this is the heart of God. wm reads

ዜልአስብዜል፡
ዜልቡዴል፡

ሪ ዜልሰብሌል፡ ዕረ/፡s/x,። ዜልእብሳሌስል፡
ሪ።። ዘልብሳ.
ቁ ዜብስሳ".
ዕዳ
5 gu = NoYoN (Schwab 58).
maf read yA;
("Néi 9).

a ሄሎያሌፍ፤
አረgeFBtnox,as yr:
።I iN.
5 8. a reads ስልጣ
u omits next three words.
«dg prefixes 0.
" # reads D0.
“Fu. m9, 8 read

ድሣሬሆሙ፡
፣ ህልእጻ"ጃሴቤክ፡

a Bio.
• “ምልህ፡

# reads ¥AABNi
m/ HNN:
« wu reads Nas 7 omits,

gu HAZY

LXXXIL. IB —-LXXXIIT. 4.

መጽሐፈ:

ሄና

1899

ብፉሀ። ወዙሰ። መዋዕሲ፡ ብርሃኒ“ሯወጸሕቲ፡ ዕለት።
19. *ወጻሰ፡ ትጻምርት፡ መዋዕል
በኗበ፡፡ ም.ፎር፡ ሕፉር ወየብስ፡ ወዕፀው፤ ያወጽሉ፡ ፍሬሆመ፡ ርሱ፤፡፡ ወ’ዴሁቡ፡ ዙሉ
ፍሬሆመሙ፡ “ርሰ ወብሱሰ፡’ ወጸባኘዕ፡ ዶታሰዩ፡" ወይዴጸንሰ፡ ወያስተጋብጹ፡። ዙሉ
ፍሬ ምድር፡ ወ“ሹሱሉ፡ ዘሀሉ፡'፡ ውስተ፤ ገራወህ፡ ወ“ ምክያደ፡ ወይን; ወይክውን፡፡ በመዋዕለ፡
“ስልጣፉ።

20. ወኣሱ፡።

ኣሙንቱ'፡

ስሞሙ“

ወሥርዓፓቲሆሙ፡"

ወመራሕያኒሆመሙ፡

ሰጻሱ፡ ጸርጳስተ፡” ፲ጀ“Lዳየል፡። ወኬሌል፡ ወሃጴል፡። ወስመ“ ለ“ዘዴዶትዊሰኳ፡ ምስሌሆሙ
ርሓጳበ፡ ፲፻; ጸስፋጴል፡። ወተፈጺጸመ፡ መዋዕሲ፡ ስልጣ ዚጸሆ።
LXXXIII. ይAWL:
ጸርኣዩክ፡። ወል.ፎዩ፣ ማቱሳሳ፤ ዙሎ፡ ራኳያትዩ፡። ልሰ” ርጺኩ፡ በቅድከ፣ ኣነፃር።
2. ከልዜት፡” ራኣዩ፡” ርጺኩ፡፣ ኣንበሰ፡ ኣንሣኳ፡ ብጻሲች፣ ወጸሐዱሄሂ፡። ኣምኔሆሙ፡ ዚዴትማሰል፡።
መስሰ፤ ካልዙ፡ ቁዳማዩ፡ ጸመ፡። ኣትሀር፡። መጽሐፈ፡ ወ“ካልጸ፡“ ኣንበሰ፡። ልንሥጳ፡።
ሰጻምክ፡። ርጺኩ፡ ራኣዩ፡ ጽኒዐ፡ ወበጻንቲጸሆመሙመ፡ ጸስተብቋዕክዎ፣ ለኣገዚጻኳ።"
3. ስኩበ።።
ኮንጌኩ፡“ በቤች፡

መሳልሌል፣

ወደወድቅ፡"

“#በ; ምድር።።

ጳኣምሔውዩ፡

ርኩ“

በራጻዶ፡። ሰማዶ፡።

ይዶትነባሣ፤ ወዴትሀዩፎ።

4. ወሶበ፡ ዴወደቅ፡። ደበ፡ ምድር፣

ርጺኻዋ፣፤ ሲምድር፤

+ 8. a reads in nom.
/ reads +Yh3i
8. £m read Ai መዋ0A: ("As m1)
TAaምርE: 5 ኣሉ መዋOAi ትHAaምCYi u በትAaምcCE; and omits next two words.
+ 0% y,a8 read HX:
words + © through hmt,

2 #,y prefix ©.
7 Im omits.

5 a, Save that Z reads in nom.
bt ድትልዋ፡

ሪ ድዴታልዋ፡

5 fu BE

mg

° B adds ብለ!
# omits next four
Sang.
g reads flrs
m,8 omit.

G0 read ዩብ:

መ omits.

0 B-ar

gg

u 4 reads gi;

read ANYጋJብA: ("A; 5).

sAYጋJብRi

read ሰዋ

» adds

ወድ

£ omits next three words.

5 eB omit.
w wu reads H. Z reads ft; HUN:
5 4,9 read FAY:
29 # omits.
7 ሠ reads ስልእጣኖሙ፡ ሰኳሰ፡
'5 Bcgx read COTS
u omits.
mg, 8. #omits. wu reads RmCAPwi
m8 add Ai mihቴሆPaes
» 9 reads
ጸርኣስቲሆመሙ፡

ወ.

ኋ ድ.

መፃ

read ጌዳጺየል፡

/ab/soxas

TዳሌtA:

(A;

ab/iox,as). u LAAN: <4! ጌዳሌA (L" 1). es 8 LዳAPA: UNA: 5S). » ዳሌ
= pB. a omit.
5 g reads aw
5 a adds Nw
5 9 reads ጸስፍሌል፡
ሠ ጸስፉሌል፡
reads ጸርጵከi
7 at #8 read AY:
= a 0cg/0xya0.
aéFhsRnpvw

read H.

nag, agw.

9, bcdefhtino read ራAY:

read © (s omits) BY:

5

9,7 PB.

inserts phi
/ KAY:

and

mu በYp" before

” 41 read HAንበAs
5 ma,B.

MልAሌY:

8.

m8

£f prefix ©,

reading

ወይዴማሰል፡ 5 reads ይትመሰሎ፣
= 4 reads Ai
= # reads ትመር: 4 ይት";
55 gu read AAI
Te. Other MSS. HAIN:
= 91 Soalsog/w,as/s8n a
but that they write it incorrectly RIA
m, 6cdhox read AYIA:
5 bcd read
Aah: x Ami ¢ adds AES:
" Z reads Aጸግዚጸብሔር፡
ue prefixes ©.
Fm read hihi
5 F reads CAhi
# m, gob read ራA:
fixes H.
4 m reads ተፈ:
8» RYE:
=, a5 omit.

Zmt read ትወድ;
# B.

uw omits.

« 9 omits.

au read ትYD.EY;

u omits.
"a preiw iB ig. omits

w, beinvx omit next four words through hmt.

160

መጽሕፈ፡

ሄኖካ

LXXXIIL. 4-1.

ከመ ትተወሕጥ፡ ውስተ፡ ቁቀሳዶ፡ ፀዐቢይ፡፡ ወጸድባር፡ ሄበ፡፡ ጸድባር፡፤ ዶሰቁቀሱ፡።፡ ወጸውፃር፡
።ደበ; ጸውግር፡፡ ድዶሰጠመ፡ ወዕፀው፡ ነዋጋን፡፡ ይትገዘሙመ፡ ኣምጕንዳቲሆመሙ፡፡ ወ“ ይትገደፉ፡
።ወይሰጠመሙ ውስተ ቁሳዴ፡።'
5. ወ።ጻምኔሁ፡፡ ወድቁ፡ ነገር፡ ውስተ፡ ጸፉዩ፡ ወ“ጸንሣኣኩ፡፡
ኣጽራሕ፣ ወኣጻቤ፡ ተሐጕኮለት፡ ምድር።
6. ወመሳልያል፡”" ኣምሔውዩ፡ ጸንሥጸኒ፡" ኣንዘ፡።
ክኔ; ኣሰካብ፡ ገቤሆሁ፡ ወዴድቤሰ፤፡ ምንት፡። ከመዝ፣ ትጸርሣ፤ ወልድዩ፡ ወ““ለምንት፡ ከመዝ፡
ትጸወዩ።
7. ወ“ንገርካዎ፤። *ሹሎ፤ ራኣዩ፡ ዘርፈኩ፡ ወዴቤሰሲኒ፡ ከመ፡፡ ቋጽኒዐበ;፡ ርጺከ፡።
ወል.ፎዩ፡

ወጋዩሲ፡።

ርኣዩ;

ሕልምክ፡

“ሣቡጻተ፡

ዙሱ፡

ጋኃጢጸተ፡"

ምድር፡

ወ’ትሰጠም፡

ሀለወት፡ ውስት፤ ቁላያት፡።። ወ“ተሐሕል፡። ኘግጕሰ፡ ዐቢዩ።
8. ወይኣጻዜኒ፡ ወልድዩ፤።
ትተንመኣ፡ ወጸስተብቀያ፡ ሰኣኘዚጾ፡ ስብሐት፡።” ኣስመ፡ መሃዴምን፤ ጸን; ከመ፤ ዶትረፍ፣
ቸራፍ፡። ዷደበ፡ ምድር” “"ወጺዴደምስሰ፤ ለሹሳ፤ ምድር።።
9. ወልሊድዩ፡፣ አምሰማይ፡።
ድሃሱ፡ ዙሱዝ፡። ደበ፡ ምድር፡ ወፈበ፡ ምድር፡ ይክውን፤ ሐጕል፡ ዐቢዶዴ።
10. ወ“ልምኔሁ፡፡
ትንሣጻኩ፥ ወጺጸሰዴኩ፥ ወጸስትብቋዕኩ፡ ወሰጸልኩ፡፡ ወጸሎት; ። ጸሕፍኩ፡፣ ለትውልደ ዓለም፤።
ወስ; ጸርኣየዩክ፡። ወእድዩ፡። ማቱሳላ።
11. ወ*ሶሰበ;። ወባኣኩ፣ ታሕተ፣ ወርጺኻያዎ፡።
+ # omits.

2 m reads ስች;

2 9 reads jዋሣ4ት'፤ « ዊጋን

7 m reads YI

5 PbBCFIRINROX.
ትንሣጻኩ፣

‘8.

5 9 trans. before £0; AE".
m reaqs ALP

9 ገድፉ:

4 9 omits.

9! APY

#9uread Amy; (1:9) m,adeh,a AP

/ ። ጸገዝኩ፡

neu.

= omits.

4 adds ውስት: ቁላይ; and omits following ©
Other MSS. AAA:

? £ reads
1 2 reads RYN:

HI TEads Dg,
EERO BEAM PY
DET PI
gO
5 m reads YICMpw 2, a Y1ርPi
5 u. reads &r3i #9, 8 ጽL0 (+ RLY: mn).
17 2m prefix ©.
5Smg,B. ## read ወጋ
u omits with next two words.
» m adds NE: 9 reads At: and trans. after ም:
n fu, 8B save that iw, b
read W#N: for ti

Zn read SAY; ft: »JLAY; save that £ reads the last word as

Sጋጢጸት፡ 5 DAY; Ri
5» £ omits
=a bcIoxak #»B-Bclox,ay read
ቁቀባይ፡
35 mh rread TYR; # omits.
a eh omit.
5 e reads ና &Nስች;
5 ## omits next eight words.
7g. mgt, Bread ይYCE:
= 8-n. #9 read ትራ
ዘ, ዛ ተረፍ

ሃ ተረፉ

5 0 omits next eleven words through hmt.,

» This clause is

of doubtful authenticity as Fm gu omit. On the other hand it could be lost through
hmt. The text as it stands is supported by 9c, and also by #, 8s % save that these

omit & and # reads At: for AWA:

As regards ወጺይ” ase read ወጺይደደመስሰ:

if Inoab Pድመስሰi s like h reads At:
™ a omits next six words.
=m,
Bceiinoxyay. treadstt; H. ag/stn Wri
gu omit.
5 m,gloa omit,
= my, 8. # reads RሰEኩi ©.

gu omit.

read ARCAtN:i

a RCA:

5 m omits.

Z reads A

9 Ami;

5 iw omits next four words.

=SmphB.

» omits.

oe)

Since, however,

u Rok; it appears that Af; is a late emendation and that

RU: (written REE) was the original reading.

5 0 reads DCA

PRR

IY TXXXIV. 2,

MXZ

ITY:

161

ሰሰማይደ፡፤ ወ'“ሰፀሕይደ። ይወጽልኣ፡። ኣምሥመራቅ፡፡ ወ’ወርሣ፡ ይወርድፎ፡፡ ኣምዕራብ፡
ወ“ውሑዳት፡፣ ከዋክብት’ ወዙሱ፥ “ምድር፡ ወዙ"
ተዘ“ጸጻመረ፤። *ዷበ፤ ቁዳሚ፡።
ወበረካዎ;። ሲኣግዚጸ፡ ሸነኔ፡ ወሎቱ ወሀብኩ፡፣ ዕበዩ; ኣስመ፡ “ጸውፀጸ፡ ፀሐዩ፡'፡ ጳመሳክወ፡
ምሥመራቅ፡ ወዐርገ; ወሠረቁ፡። ዷበ፡ ገጺ፡ ሰማይ፡ ወጸንመጾ፡" ወየሐውር፡”" ፍኖ ኣን
ትርኣዩት፤ ሎቱ።
LXXXIV. ወRAOAኩ:! aደዊti። በጽደቅ፡ ወባረክዎ፣ ሰቅዲዱስ፡
ወሰሲዓቢይ፡ ወነገርኩ፥ በመንፈሰ ጸሩፉዩ፡ ወ“በልሰሃ፡ ሥጋ “ኣንገ፡ ገብረ; ጸጺምላሳኳ፣ ሰበውሱደ
መጋ; ሰብኣ “ክመ፡ ዴትናገፉ፡ በቲ” ወወሀቦመ፡፥ መንፈሰ፡ ወ“ልሰ ወጸፈ፡“ ከመ፡
ዴትናገፉ፡ ቦቱ።።
2. ቡፉኳ፤ ጸንት፤ ኣጻፃዚዶ፡። ንገሥ
ዐቢይዴ;” ወጋ.ል፡

በ'0በ፻፡ ዚጸክ፡

ጻግዚጸ፡ ዙሱ፡ ፍጥረት፡” ሰማይ
ንተሠ ነገሠት ወጸምላሳክ፤ ሹሱ፡።” ዓሲም
ወ“መሲኮትክ፣ ወ።መንኘመትክ፡። ወዕበይከ፡። ዴነብር፡ “ሲዓሲም፤ ወ።“ለዓሰመ፡ ዓሰም
ወሰዙሲ፡። ትውልደ፤ ትውልፎ፣ ስልጣንከ፤።
ወሸሎመሙ፡ ሰማያት” ምንበሪከ፡። ሰንሰም፡
+ g omits.
hmt.;

2 m trans. Bh;

for in the text before

5 g prefixes ©.

2 d omits.
HDA

‘mg

of u

# omits next three words through
gh;

occurred

before

ወወርሣ

(also original of #: see preceding note) add gh;

5 m9 read ወርዲ:

Ng ead,

and Aሰማይ፤

the scribe

0s

o ድወርዳ፤

8 adds ኣምሥራቁ፤ ወወርሣ፣፤ ይወርድ

$ያ,8.

9 ጽደ

m reads ው4ዳት፡

/። ውሑዳ

5 wu omits next six words. 9 reads next three words in acc.
0 Fmg, cdFi/0ya0.
abepypgnx omit through hmt. au also omits (see preceding note).
x bn omit.
5 = sige = 31

corrupt

(Flemming).

8 g reads phi

5 # reads 00fi

for

2

(Margoliouth)

or = éséneey

corrupt

for sroiney

sw (see note 9).

5 omits.

።

adds ዲቤሆ፡

u reads ROK; gh;

For next two words # reads ምራ;

7 # reads ዓ¢1; » RO]; u omits.
'5 g reads mመweረey;
Fm, aycEIFBRX.
fh grIu0y,a,y read DY i*=መB: u omits.
0 0 read PDC;
ei # omits

next four words,

mg.

/#u, Bread Ati

= 9 reads AA; ጋ

» AY;

ዘጋ;
5 m reads HIAብCሮ:; 5 H (NYY; 9) YI:
Amy abcFBtgnx,
uw, dgelopyab omit.
9 reads HDi and trans. after ሰብ;
5 w omits.
n @eFBRnyw read Ni AA
7 9 reads Li
= m omits.
» Bs prefix 0D.
5 mu reads @ETረYi H.

a » adds &.Epi

wu omits.

5 Z reads Jt:

w omits.
5
reads Oth: #« omits.
*# g5w omit.
= m adds Ahi
5 # reads ሰማ
7 s/w, B-aey. mg, ae read መንበርhi 5 መiባሪh;
il

Xf:

162

መጽሐፈፉ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

LXXXIV. 2-5.

ወ“ዥሳ፡፡ ምድር፡ መካይደ፡፡ ኣገሪከ፡ “ሲዓሲም፡ ወ’ሲ“ዓሰመ፡፡ ዓሰመ ።
3. ኣስመ ጸንት፣ ገበርከ ወ“ለዙሱ፡፡ ጸንገ፣፥ ትመልኳክ፡፣
ወ“ዚጺድጸን0ከ፡፡ ግብር; “ወጺ፡ ፩'"| ወጺጸሐቲ፡|
ጥበብ፡ ጴተሐልእፍ፡። “ኣምንባራት፤ ምንባሪክ
ወጺትትመዩየጥ፡።

ጺኳምገጽክ፡

ወጸን1፡

“ታጸምር፡

ዙሉ"

ወ“ትሬጺጵ፡“

ወትሰምዕ፡

ወጸልቦ፡ ዘዴችኘባኣ፡ ኣምኔክ፡ |(ኣስመ፡ ሹሎ፡ ትሬጺ።|
4. ወዴኣኬዜኒ፡ “መሳኣካክት፣ ሰማያቲክ፡" ዴሌብሰሱ፡
ወዲደበ፡ ሥጋ; ሰብኣኳ፤ ትከውን፡ መዐትክ፡
ኣስከ ዕለት ዐባይ፤ ኣንተ;። ሹዜ።
5. ወይኣጻኒ፡

ጸምሳካ፤

ወኣንዚኣ;።

ወ።ንጉሥ፡

ዐቢይ፡።

ኋስትበፉዕ፡ ወኣስኣል፡ ከመ፡ ታቅም፡ ሊት ስኣለትዩ፡
mh Bw

9 read ti

wu omits.

2 Fu.

mg, 8B read mht:

5 nn omits,

mu omit.
° » reads Ch:
ests add WN;
Sm.
# trans. after
Toni
u omits. Behn read WN
n reads WN; and trans. after AY:
es omit.
7 dloy,a8 read TAA
uw adds Ahi
sa, B~d/no,b. ZF reads NBAY0N; tN
i

4/ ጴያጸንፀክ፣

2.5 ጺጸንዐክ፡

፣ 9 reads Jብረ፡

"ያ

5-5

መዞ ይ፣ read ወጺጸሐዱ

7 ASS
" ureads ©. x Ati
1 have bracketed this phrase as a dittography.
The dittographic text appearing first as OABOAB
was next expanded into
ወጺBወጺAሐቲ: as in £, 5-55 in order to bring the dittography into grammatical
agreeinent with PA; or into ወጺARS ወxAሐቲ: of ny,
But the dittography
cannot be connected with Pi for « wisdom is here personified as the subsequent
clauses show.
s Fmended. # reads RY. » RYJAEh:i Other M55. AY IAh:

5 Em.from PAY YOtT: (OጺYድnh:s

2 Oጺትትመtnhi
») AመY0CY

(7 omit)

ምiባሪh; (መንበሪከ፡ ያ ጳመንበርክ፡
5) (+ ለዓሲለም፤።) ወ. By this simple transposition
of the verb AYYa” the parallelism of the text is restored. Further AIC; has

been cmended into AምJAራYi
Tdrov Tot gpdvov ou = X53

Thus the phrase AምJገባራt: Fiqh; = sno ro
harsl5 Ps. Ixxxix.

15.

Aመ]ንበርታ; which 1 have emended into ምJራY;
admit of any reasonable rendering

dition, ‘life, or ‘food.’

Even

in this passage.

if we

To return
The

word

MSS. omit,
5 au, e omit,

to the word

means

forced upon it the meaning

as Flemming has done, the sense is not suitable to the passage.

ZN. uomits.
5 /u.
ወጺፓስትርዉ፡
7B,
መባጻካቲክ፡
"። omils.

now

we should observe that it does not
¢ state, « con-

of sebenigrund,

1 egy trans. after

reads ታAምC:iD. m8 TAC: ©. 9 omits.
ay read HYYብNI
Bracketed as a gloss.
im omits.
=9. Other MSS. read 0AY:

Na omits.

trans. after next word.

5 fu, Be.

" # adds
* wu reads
=. Other
Fmg,e omit,

LXXXIV. S=TLXXXV. 5.

መጽሐፈ:

ህና:

ክመ፡ ታት'ርፍ፡

ሲት፡። ደጋሪት።። ውስተ፡፣ ም.ፎር፡

“ወጺታጥፍኣ፡

ዙስ ሥጋ: ሰብኣ

ወት0ርቃ፡፡

ሰምድር፡

ወድከውን፡

ሐኮል፡፣ ለንሰም።፣

169

6. ወይጻዜ፤፡ ኣግዚሓኣዩ፡ ጸጥፍል፡ “ኣምዷበ፡ ም.ድር፡ ሠመጋ።። ኣንት;፡ ጸምዕዐፀትከ፡'"

ወሥጋ፡ “ጽ.ድቅ፣ ወ“ርት0፡ ጸቅም፤ ለትክለ፤ ዘርኣ ለንለም፡።
ወጺት'ሰውር፡።
LXXXV.

ገጸከ;

ኣምስኣለት፡

DAም.Eሣረዝ፡

ካልጸ፡’፡

2. ወጸገሥመክ፡" ሄኖክ; ወይቤ

ገብርከ፡

ኣንግዚይ።"

ሕልመ”

ርጺኩ፥ ወ’ዙሉ፡

ሰወልዱ፤፥ ማቱሰሳ፤

ሐልመ፡።

ሰከ፣ ኣብሰከ፡

ጸርኣየክ፤

ወል.ሮፎዩ።

ወልፎዩ፡። ስማዕ፡

ሃ1ርዩ

“ወጸጽንን፡ ኣዝነከ፡ ሰርሓዩ፡ ሕሐልመ፡ ጸቡክ።።
3. ላንበሰ፡ ኣጳንሥጻ።። ሰኣምክ፤ ኣድሪ
ርጺኩ፡ በ“ራኣዩ፡ ምስካብዩ፡። ወናሆ፤ “ሰህም፤ ወፀጸ;። ኣም.ፎር፡“። ወከኮቱ ዝኩ፥ ሳህም፡
ጸዓዳ: ወኣምድሣሬሆሁ፡
ወፀጸገ፣ ጣዕዋ፤ ጓገንስታዴይነ፡” ጸሐቲ። “ወምስሌሃ” ወፀጹ፡።”
ልጹ

ጣዕኾ፡።

ጸሲም፡

ጣዕዋ

ሰዝኩ፡።

ቁይዴሕ፡“"

ፉበ፡

ወኔ “"ኣምኔሆመ፡።

ሰዋዪሕ፡

ኮኔ ጸሊመ፡። ወ፩“ቀድሐሕ፡፡።

ወተትሰዎ፤ “ውስት፣

ጣዕዋ።"

ምድር፡።

5. ወዝኩ“

4. ወ“ኾኮ.ፎይ፡። ዝኩ

ወጺካክህልኩ፥

“ጸሲም፤

ጣዕዋ፡።

ኣምሶቤሃ፡
ልህ“

ወ’መጽልነ"

1 m reads ታYCR
a omits.
° 9) n read Aጋሪትti / ጋር
» # omits. For wD; 9 reads HD);
25#FL g reads PY0C#:

ወጺታዕርቃ፡

# ወጺታትርዕያ፡

through hmt.

ጸም0ነከ፡ /።,/ጸምዓፃ0ነክ፡
read ሰlውCi
#9 omits,
ሕልም

7 m prefixes A.

abcde omit according to Dillmann.

SZ.

ርኣዮችተ፡።

* u reads
mu B-#

5 g omits next fifteen words
8

2m read

a omits.
2 w omits next five words.
5 # reads ግዚ
9 read Ai

#8
7 0 reads

Other MSS. omit,

# reads H.

5 reads DY YA;

/,n AA:

# omits.

nw trans. after B®;
™ u omits. 9 adds EAA
= wu reads ARPA; YI¢:
ጸቡክ፡ ሕእመ፡
= ያ, B-f/noxab. gm
Inox ay read AJA (sic).
“rn
ሠ rሮads ምመስኻብየ፡

7, 5 ራአይ፡

በምስ".

5 a, BM

trans.

mn reads RA:

AJ”;

5 #reads በምECi
T. my, ceinoah read AYስትያዊY; 9 AYNስትY.PEi #, as 4/5
ጸንስቲዊነ፡
5 9 reads ምስሌሆ፡
»ረ/። ወምስሌሆ፡
5 ,n. g reads OA:
Other MSS. OA:
n,n.
ARI Other M55. Ai
uu reads M0ዋY;
5 ሠ rcads AU

read Phi
ሰቁዴሕ፡

/AEሣeሆmi

” 9 reads RAI:

mB

save that gm

9 reads phi # Ri
=” m reads FEY
“ru. Other M55.
Tg. mgwl8 read #0; mo, wu omits.
8 treads CAI
"gn

prefix ©.
"tl.
m reads HቁEhi
gu ቀ:
uF reads Mዓpi a omits
next thrce words,
=F omits,
5g. m reads M0ዋi u# Rr;
Other M55.
trans,

“aZ,B.

oጽAi

ወፀት;

# reads Aህቁi

adds ጸሊም: AY

SB,

mg read

164

መጽሐፈፉ፡

ዛኖካ፡

LXXXYV. STLXXXVL. 1.

መስሴሆ፡ ዝኩ፡' ጣዕዋ። ጳንስታዴዶት።። ወርኩ ኣምኔሆ፡፡ ዘደወፀጽ፡፣ “ጸአህ ምት ብዙኃን
ኣንዘ። ዶመስልዎ፤ ወደተልዉ፡፡ „ድግሬሆ።"
6. ወጻንተኻቲ፡ ጻኮልት።" ጸንስታዴት፡"
ኣንታኻቲ፡፡ ቁዳሚት፡። ወ9ጸት፡። ኣምቅድመ፡ ገጺ: ዝኩ፡ ሳህም፡ ቁዳማዩ፤፡ ጋሠሠተ፤
ሲ“ውጻቲ።

ጣዕዋ፡

ቁዪወ፡።

ወxረክበተ፡

ወጸውየወት፡

ግቤሆ፡"

ጸዘውያተ፡”

ዐቢያት፡።

ወግሠሠች።፡

7. ወርጺኩ፡ ኣበስከ፣ መጽጸ፡ ዝኩ፣ ሳህም፡;። ቁዳማዩ፡። ኘቤሃ፡። ወ“ጸርመማ፡።

ወ“ምይልቲ፡

፲ዜ፡።

ጽ“ጸርሐት።

8.

ወጻም.ፎሣረዝ፡

ወሰደት፡

ካል”

ሳህመ፡

ጸዓዳ፡ ወ“ኣም.ፎሣሬሆ፡ ወለደት” “ጸአህምተ፡ ብዙኃ፤፡ ወኣጐልት፡” ጸሲማ!ነ።። 9. ወርጺኩ፡
በንዋምሂ፤ ዝኩ ሶር፡። ጸዓዳ፡ ወ።ክከመዝ። ልህቁ፡ ወኮኔ፤ ሶረ፡። ጸዓዳ ዐቢዩ፡ ወ“ጻምኔሆ፡
ወፀ ጸልህምቫ፡። ብዙጋኃኘጌ፡።” ጸዓዳ፤ ወይመስልዎ።
10. ወወጠፉ፡ “ጻጌH፡ ዴወልዲ"
“እልህም

ብዙጋ፤"

ጸዓዳ፤ “ወጻሰ፡ ይመስልዎመሙመ፡። ወ“ትለወ፤። ሄሰካልእሉ።።

ወ።ካ0በ፡፡ ርኳኩ፡፥። በኣዕዶንትዩ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ኣነውም፡
i a, a(z) 8a.

ወርጺኩ፡፥

ሰማዩ“

XXXVI.

መልዕልተ; “" ወነዋ፤።

Whi being rarely used as fem. was changed into AY;

cgiox,ay, and into HE: by ef 2p.

s prefixes Ato Wr;

2 au omits.

[nu 0 read Rንስትዊት፣

9።, 870 ጸንስቲያዊት፡

/ ጸንስቸያዶት፡

Haምrኔሁi

29

u omits.

'n5-n.

n read HOA:

into nom. in the relative clause.

Zw, B change into acc. RAVY;

this change only in the first word.

78.

f reads OYA

ይት

# omits.

#4 wu omits.

‘rm.

240

au read OAH:

2 7,8.

by

Vy
Z reads

Phrase attracted
ብዙ:

5” makes

«#D.

gmt 8-BI80.

mt

read FAግopa

ae omits.
1» g reads APA:
ng. mau, fno,a read RYስትዊትi 9 Rንስቲያደት;
ሃጸንስትያይዴት፣፥ -/። 0s ክንስቲ.ዊት፡
5 gu omit.
® m reads pati sw omits.
5 9 prefixes ©.

af BER.

5 ary omit.

## reads ‘JR and omits next four words.

w omits, Bcgelnox,ab read pA:

mf, 8 read Phi

5 2.

mh B read ሰቤyi

7 o adds xረhበti
9 £0:

« omits.

15 aH

"gw.
% g reads

ጸወዩየወት፣ # ዓዊት
Fmt apgiRIn0. gu, e#hh read 04; cv
00£1:
= a omits.
5 15 read pA:
= g, cny read ሰቤyi sw omits.
5 g reads
Rስተራመማ፣ ።# ጸርመመት፤
/ omits preceding ©.
5 gy, bce/Bnx.
gmt

adrkloy ay omit.
read ©. aw omits.
0 # reads Of;
/u# ጸሲማች፡

7 w omits.

0, aeByiky» read AC:

5m, 8,

read TAP;

7 u reads Dሲ.:

read ብዙ:

Ag puts in nom.

YA

For NምRAE:

m reads APውAE

EE

5 mh,
#9 read MAR:
# reads E and trans. after Van;
1 ay read DAE:
5 g reads in nom.
5 9 reads Rሲማት፡
cy read Nei
55 wu, pny omit.
95 m trans. after Ot:
9 ብዙ»;

#9 reads Ro.

» XR

ምኔ

። "DH;

si ይመስል:

“gm gin) ad ብዙ

5 Fu read NAVY;

0 w reads Ai

wu omits.

* a-m.

n PAX

m,g-d

("DY 9). # adds ብWጋy; but trans.

it after CA; in next sentence.
» w adds ብ»; which it has transposed from
preceding sentence, but omits next four words.
5 mw prefixes ©.
2m
repeat

from preceding clause PCA; ሰt:

» wu reads p13:

TXRRVT IE,

መጽሐፈ፡

ኮክከብ፡ ጸሐዷኗ። ወፎቁ።
ጸልህምት።፡፡
ወሰጡ፡'"

ጀ"ሰ"ካልጹሉ።
ከዋካብቫ"

ምዕያሞመ፡፥

ወምርዓዮመ፡

3. ወኻካዕበ፣ ርጵኩ፥
ብዙኃን”

165

ልምሰማድ፡ ወዴትሴዐል፡። ወዴበልዕ፡ ወዴዶትረዐፀድ፡። ማኣክከለ፡፡
2. ወኳምዝ፡፣ ርጺኩ፡፣ “ጸልህምት፣፡ ዐፀቢያ፤፤ ወጸሲማ፤ኔ፡፡ ወ*ናሆ፡

ኣእቱ

ዙሎመ፡።፣

ዛኛኻ፡

ወረዲ;

ወ“ጸጥፀዋሆመሙመሙ፡"

በራኣይ፡።

ወ“ትገድፉ፡።

ወ“ገጸርኳዎ፡።
ኣምሰማይ፡

ወጸሐዙ፡

ተየሐይጪ፤።

ሲ“ሰማይ፡

ወ።ኔዋ፡

ርዉኩ፡”

በኘበ፡።” ዝኩ

ኮከብ;

ቁዳማዊ፡

ወ“ማጻከሰ;። ኣልኩ፥ ጣዕዋ፡ ጸልህምተ፡። ኮኒ፤ ወ“ምስሌሆሙ፡ ድትረዓዩ [(ማጸከሎሙ።፡]።
4. ወነጸርካዎመሙ” ወርጺኩ፥ ወ“ኔዋ;። ሹሎመሙ። ጸውፀጽ፥ ገፍረታፓቲሆመ፡ ክከመ፡ ጸፍራስ፡።
ወጸሐዙ፣ ድዕረች;። ዷበ፡ ኣጕልተ፡። ጸልህምት፥ ወጸንሳ፤ ሹሎን፡፡ ወወለዳ፡ ነጌያት፡። ወጸገኘማለ፡
ወጸኣዱገ።

5. ወ።ችሎመ፡፣

ጸልህምት፡

ፈርህዎመሙመ፡።

ወዶደንገፀፁ፡

ኣንዘ፡። ይኔዝፉ፡” በስነኔሆመ፡

ወይደውሕጡ፤

ወድዴወፃጽ፡

በጸቅርንቲሆሙ።

ኣንከ፡" ዴብልዕዎሙ፡።
mL,

ሰ“ጻልዙ፡። ጸልህምት'፣፥

ወ“ሣዋ፣

ሹሎመ“

gw read B, so also 8 but trans. before hhብi

before Bh;

in 8 text.

3 # omits.

read AAW:
AN; o omits,
read DAYEi
/ AnAi

ወጸሐዚ፡

6. ወጸሐዚ፡

ውሱደ፡ ምድር

2 omits.

«4 # reads መAOAY:

ጸሐዚ፡

5 6fy trans.
Su.

mgpB-n0

5 2 omits next three words through hmt.
78. mg
©.
s / omits. mm add AMY; ("HE ). 9,5 AA

5 7, apt805 put in nom.
w# reads 0.3: ወጻ;
um. gi read MOP
8 AMOPሆPas a omits.
read QO

ኣምኔሆመሙመ፡

Scg/yi8nya YR

(ው).

= Sog.

0 2 reads መሰ;
ag, eeI0XyD

But the latter word gives no

satisfactory sense.
The black bulls (i,e. the Cainites) did not leave their pastures
and cows simply to engage in lamentation.
In fact $0" is simply an emendation of
tሐይደi
Nor yet can thas be original. The difficulty does not lie in its being
in the indicative ; for this construction occurs occasionally —see Dillmann s Zexscon,

767, but in the construction fh: BAAR which is practically impossible. But
the emendation of th is easy. It appears to be a corruption of thi
Hence
the phrase = ijpXovro StaprdCety €kagros Toy TA ioy arog,

5 a. Breads ምስለ; a late

change.
xm prefixes ©.
w# omits next four words.
15 m reads ACh;
5 ZF reads 0.
7 au add ወርጺኩ፡
5 m trans.
15 aim, Im, B put in acc.
n a,

Bu put in acc.

# omits.

1 B prefixes ©.

52 # reads Je;

5 a

u, 8 read Ji
= y omits.
= u reads ምስለ
= / reads pMOዋሆPas su omits.
ማያ
mፃu read RNAV
8 ወጸልህVምY
5 @ omits.
5 Bracketed as
a dittography. ## omits next two words.
5 freads iach
1 0 reads ey;
መ adds CርጺW፡
5
trans. after RE,
5 greads ፈረNi y omits.
#2. Other

MSS. EOC

HEY; 95715

5 a, abcitioxyhread NኝላYi

= c reads ይፈCcUPms

° w omits, 9 adds AIH;

« 9 reads ይበ".

4/5na ATAY

Fu read

“gm, 8. 9 read ARNE:

# omits.

= 9 reads AYni

” mtu read PINE:

166

መጽሐፈ:

ዴድር0ዐዲ፡' ወ“ያፎለቅልቁ፡፡ ኣምኔሆሙመ፡፡

ዛና:

ወ“ ድንፈፉ፡፡ ኣምኔሆሙ፡’

ርጺኻዎመ፡ ወጽኘገዙ፡፡ ኣንዘ፡ ዴወኘኣ፡፣ ጀሰካልጹ፡'"
ጸንዘገ፡

ትጽራሣ።፣

2. ወ“ጸንሣኣኩ፡

በራኣደ፡።“

ወነዋ፡ ወፀጽ፡።

።ኣምውኣቱ፡

መካን;

ጸሐሕዘዙኒ፡።

በጻዴዩ።

ኣምሰማይ፡፡

1ዋሣግ፡“ ወ።“ጸርጸዩኒ፡።

ማሣፈደ፡

XXXVI.

ወካዕበ

ወ" ይውጠሕጦ፡። ጀ"ሰካእዙ፡ “ወምድር

ጸዕዶንትዩ፡

ከመ፡"

ካዕበ፡።

ጸምሰለ፡

ወ“ሂ“"ምስሌሴሆሙ፤።
ወጸገንሥመጹኒ፡።”

LXXXVL6-LXXXVIL.2.

ውስት፡

ሰማዶ፤

ሰብኳኣ፡ “ጸዓዳ”

“ወርጺኩ፡

ወው፱“ወፀጹጽ፡"

3. ወኣመሙንቲቱ፡፡ ሂ።ጻሰ። ወጽጹ፡፥

ጸምትውልደ፡

ምድር፡።

ነዋኝ፣፡ ኣምድር፡

ወ“ጸልዐሱኒ፡”

ድሣረ፡”

ዲበ

መካን፤

ወከኮኔ፤ ሕፁፀ፡። ሹቡሱ፡ ጸውኘግር።”

4.

ወ“ ይቤሲኒ፡። ንበር፡ ዝዩ፡ ኣስክ፡ ትሬጺ፤።” ሹሉ ዘይመጽል፡ ዷበ፡ ጻልኩ፡። ነጌያት፡። ወጸፃማል፡
ወጸጻዱን፡ ወደበ; ከዋክብት ወዷበ፡ ጸልህምታት'፡። ወሸሎሙ። “= LXXXVIII. ወርጺኩ፡”
ጸሐደ፤

ኣምኣልእኩ፡ ፱“ኣሰ፡ ወፀጹ፡ ኣም'ቁዳሚ፤፡

ወ“ጸሕዞ፡።

“ሰዝኩ፥

ኮከብ፡"

ቁዳማድ፡።

ዘወድቅቁ፡። ኣምሰማይዴደ፡ ወጸሰሮ፡ አደዊሁ፡ ወኣገሪሆሁ፤ ወወደየ” ውስተ፣ ማዕምቅ፡“። “ወዝኩ
ማዕምቅ፡። ጸቢብ፡ ወዕሙቅ፡፡ ወ።0ዕጺብ፡“ ወጽልመት።
2. ወጀ“ኣምኣሱ፡’፣ መልሐ፡
ሰይፈ“ ወወሀቦሙ ሰጻልኩ፡ ነጌያት። ወጸገኘማል፡፡፡ ወጸኣዱን፣፡ ወ*ጸኘዘ፡ " “ጻን; ዴጕ.ድይ፤"
1 a reads COXA;
n PድAቅሰቁ፡

= omits.

? mi abceያFBi8ix. Ft, d0abread ድለ:
5 w omits.

‘0.

5 ያድAቅAE

ጋ, B-y read ድንፍጂ፡

‘Fm.

Other MSS. omit.

° m, BcfInoxy,aB read ARH:

s Fu.

m reads £ው3p:

9,8 £OIB:

8 trans. before LOJA

two words through hmt.

1 gomits.

= m reads Di

/።, » ይነፍጽ፡

u omits.

' m omits.

sy omit next

gLውሐTi

2 trans.

before £ውሕni
"gu omit.
5 mop read DR
a omits.
Hig
read 0. mn omits.
gu. m/write in full ARCOE: 8 reads.
a. 8 reads
ወፀ:
"EI.
mi write in full wANE:
= m only. ss omits. Other MSS.
ምስሌሁ
=2Z98 min tull ሠለስቱ; # omits.
= 9 reads £ሣeሆሁi
= 8. #97
read ጸሐ;
m OAJH: # omits.
= m reads RRL:
” m reads AA3ሰL
7
adds ቁዱስ፡ ©.
5 m reads RCREL
5ይ8.,
af read AR: (9 "Xi.
mF reads AUJC: u omits.
ag, ceያFhik. 9, apdginox (27), read ድቤ
552 mw reads RoR
5 a. ge read Aሱ፡ ። ምድር፣ በኣሴ፡
=m, 8. Zu read
Hገያሻ፡ ያ ና7ያት;
= 9 ።, e read RእህVምት፡
“ng.
reads PRN
8 tN
¥ c omits.
5 g# write in full ACO0'E: £ trans. after DOA
af, DF BIRI»n0 Xiah.
#, ac dehy read AH:
*» 5 reads Hh; hhበi
“a ak, Dcds/oxy read pA:

ሪያሃsa ቀዳሚ:

ቀዳማ

5 ey read Df

5 & reads m3:

“8-4.

#Z reads 0:
mu 30; 939; / AR: 4 080i
1t is not improbable, however, that
g may be right and that # mu corruptions of it.
5 a. B reads ሰይE:
i
a omit,
i amu, 1. a omits, m, B21, 2 read RYH: o NIH;
45 mu omit,

Here m places an indicative after AHH:

5 # reads OIA;

LXXXVIUIL.
2 -LXXXIX. 5.

መጽሐፈ:

#7:

167

ጀሰካእጹ፥ ወሳ
ምድር፡ ጸንቀልዋቀለሰት። ደቤሆሙ፡፡
3. ወ“ስበቢ፡፣ ርጺኩ፥ በራአይ፡
ወነዋ፡፡ ኣንከ፡፡ ጀኣም።“ኣልኩ፡፡ ዘሆ'ኣሰ፡። ወፀሉጽ፡ ወገረ፡;፡ ኣምሰማዴ፡ ወጸስተጋብጸ፡'" ወነሥጸ፡
ዙሎ፡። ከዋክብተ ዐቢያኔ፡" ኣሰ፡ ገፍረተሙመ፡ ከመ፤ ገፍረተ፡" ጸፍራስ፡ ወጸሰሮሙ፡ “ሰዙሎመሙ፡

በ“ጻደዩሆሙ፡፥

ወ“ኣገሪሆመ፡፥

ወወደዮመ፡

በንቅዐተ፡። ምድር።

LXXXIX. ወጀአም

“ኣልኩ ፀሑረ፡ ንበ፡ “ዝኩ ሳህም፡” ጸዓዳ፡ ወ“መሀርሮ፡። ምሥመጢሪረ፤ ኣንዘ፡ ጽ።ይርዕዶ፡
ውኣቲቱ፡ ሳህም፡ ትወልደ፤ ወከኮ፤፡ ሰብጸ፡ ወጸረበ፡ ሎቲቱ፡፡ መስቁረ፡ ዐቢዩ፡ ወነበረ፡ ፈቤሃ፡
ወጀጸልህምት፡ ነበፉ፥ ምስሴሆሁ፡። በይኣቲ፡ መሥቁር፡ ወ“ተክከድ፤፡ ሳዕሴሆሙ።
2. ወ።ኻካ0በ፡
ጸልዓልኩ፡።” ጸዕዶንቲዩ፡።“ መንገሰ።” ሰማደ፡ ወርኩ “ናሕወሰ፡ ልዑለ; ወሂጸስራብ፡ ዴቤሆ፡
ወ“ጸልኩ፡።”

ጸስራብ፡”

ይውሕዙ”

በ፱"0ጺ.ፎ፡።

“ማዩ; ብዙሐ።።

32. ወ“ርዚኩ፡

ካዕ0በ፡።

ወነዋ; ጸንቅዕታኝ፡ ተርሕዉ፡። “በ; ምድር፡፡ በውኣጻቱ፡ “0ጺ.ፎ፡ ዐቢዶደ፡። ወ“ጸኘዘ፡። ውኣቱ፡፡
ሣይ; ይፈልሕ፡። “ወዴገኘንሣኣ፤ ዲጁበ፡ ምድር፡። ወተጻርኣየዩ፡። ሰውኣጻቲ፡ ዐጸድ ኣስከ፡“"
ዙሱ፡ ምድሩ” ትኪደ፤፤ በማዴ።።
4. ወበዝኘኝ፡ ደቤሆሁ፡ ማዶዴ፡ ወጽልመት፡ ወሂሄ፤*።
ወጻሬጺ፡ መልዕልተ፡ ሰዝኩ፡“ ማይ፡ ወትሳባዐለ፡። ውኣቲቱ፡ ማይ“ መልዕልተ፤ ሰውኳቱ
ዐጺፎ፡። ወዴክዑ፡። መልዕልተ፡ ሰዐጸድ፡ ወዋመ፡ ዳበ ምድር።
5. ወሸሎመሙ፡ ጸልህምት።
1 g reads A:
2 8-7. 9, 8 read ጽድሰቅለቁዋት፡
sam, 8. m reads
ዙሳ፡ ምድር ዷበ፡ ምድር፡ ያ ምስሌሆሙ
+ w omits.
5 wu, f omit,
oa, aw,
B~au read NAME:
7 Bcd/ox,ay trans. after DOM:
su, 8-0. Fm read
ጻምጻሰሲ፡ 5 ወኣሰ፡
፡።,8. ያmፃ/prefix ©. » adds ሰይፈ
10 Zu, 3. Fmg read
ጸስችጋብጽ፡
u mp8.
#9 read Di
bx trans. before ANY".
aw omits.
5 g omits.
5 9g puts in nom.
“a, BcdiInox,ay. a/aut read 0ቢያt; « 001:
5 enw y omit.
iS #, a omit.
7 Fg#a. Other MSS. read ወቢ.
# a reads

ውስ

5 ae Fh hivw read ANNE:

ah 8npw) AልVምት፡

ድር0E£; ። x read COX
5 a,

ውስተ፣

BBX trans,

0 m only,

1 Bdgnx read መUCaw

5 wu omits next four words.

bX omit Of:

5 0.

# omits this word and the next.

n adds ላOሴሁ፥፣

” a-n.

I! HE: ብWYI

5 0 reads AHH;

70.

m RCAF;

For

4 fu, 8. #Zmg omit.

Other MSS. RORንYt:

27 # reads

” wu omits.

=

Obs. indicative.

።u CAN;

(AARNE;

mfB omit,

= 9 reads AAM'E: # omits.

mn, 8 ያውሣዜዙ፥፡

# reads Ft: ብዙ;
7 reads CAF:

a-m, 8 read Ai
5 Fgu.

። m reads ጸስራብ፤ ዘዐጺድ፡

= mu, 8.

trans.

= 9 reads TCAግDI

5 1 trans.

Other MSS. read ፍላ:

EE

8 CAF:

1 take these readings to be corrup-

tions of an original RCP = excelsa eius.
Flemming emends into AeA:
» 4 adds ወዴኻሁ፡ መልOAY: drawn from end of verse 4. # omits next three words.
m reads Ahm:

VR TEs EN

PORES

45 su omits next three words

through hmt.
# 9 reads AለውAati in A:
# w omits next ten words.
“ያሑ
dg omits with next two words.
4 nu omits,
Other MSS. +A3A or +A0A፡
2 omits.
5 9 reads 0s
adds yt:
45 # omits next three words.

168

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኖካ፡

LXXXIX,. 8-10,

ሕኣሰ፡ ውኣኋቲቱ፡ ዐጺደ፡ ተጋብጹ፤ ኣስከኔ፡' ርጺኻዎመ፡፥ ይዴሠጠመ፡፡ ወይትወኝጡ፡፣

ወዴት ጋጕኮሰ፡

በ'ውኣቲ፡ ማዶዴ።
6. ወውኣቲ፡ መሥቁር፡ ዶጸቢ፡ ሄበ፡ ማይ፤ ወ“ሸሎመሙ፡፡፣ ጸልህምት፡
ወ።ንጌት፡። ወጸፃማል፡ ወጸጻዲዱንፃ፡። ትሠጥሙ፡
“ውስት፡ ምፎር፡፣
ወዙሱ፡፡ ኣንስሳ፣
ወጺኻህልኩ፡ ርጳየዮተሙ፡፣ ወ“ጻሙንቱጀ፡፡ ስጻኒ፡፥ ወጺጸ፡፡ ወትጋጕሱ፡ ወተሠጥሙ፡' “ውስት
ቁላይ

ናሕስ፡

7. ወካዕበ

ልሁል:

ወንቅዐተ፡

ርጺኩ፥

በራኳድ፡።

መምድር፡

ፀረዩ፡።“

ኣስክ፡

ሰሰሰ፡

ወመዓምቃት፡"

“ዝኩ፡

ጸስራባት፡።

ካልኣት"

ልም “ዝኩ

ተፈትሑ"

8.

ወጸኘዘ፡ ማይ; ድረፎ፡ ውስቴተመሙ፡ ጻስከ፤;” ተክሥመተ፡። ምድር ወውኣቲቱ፡ መስቀር ነበረ
ውስተ፡። ምድር ወትፃሣሰት፡። ጽልመት፡ ወከ ብርሃን።።
9. ወውልኣቲ፡ ባህም፡ *ጺ08;
ዘከኮኔ፡ ብኣቤ፡“ ወጽጸ፡። ልም።ዝኩ፡። መስቁር፡” ወሂጸልህምት፡ ምስሴሆ፣ ወኮ፤፡ ጀኣምዝኩ፡፤”
ቺ“ጸልህምት፡ ጸዐዳ ዶመስሉ፡። ሰ“ዝኩ፡ ሳህም;። ወጸሐዱ፤፥ ኣምኔሆሙ፡፡ ቁይሕ፡። “ከመ፡
ደም፡። “ወጸሕዲ፡ ጸሲም፡። ወውኣጻቱ፡ “ዝኩ፡ ሰህም፡፣ ጸዐዳ; ግሰፈ፡ ኣጳምኔሆሙ።።
10. ወጸሐዙ፡ ዴሰዱ፣ ጸራዊተ፡ ገዳም፡ ወ“ጸዕዋፈ፡። ወከኮኔ፤ ጳጻምኔሆመሙ ዘ“ኣምዙሱ፡።
ዓብር፡”

ጸሕዛብ፡

ጸናብስገ፡"

ወ“ጸናምርት፡"

ወጸዝኣብነ፡ “= ወጸካልብገ፡“

ወጸጽባዕት"።

1 9 reads ስከ; Bs
+ m reads A.
° mB.

“©.
። Aስh:
2 m reads hw
3 a omits.
iu read yIPYi 9 5S7Y:I # trans. AAVምY'; and 1.
5 # reads ©.
7 reads CAF
» JጽCተTS‘sn
aepiioay. g reads
AN;
u omits. Bcginpxy read AYE: FAYE
° nu omits next four
words.
wey omit.
m reads PA
= 8 reads በራAE: # omits.
a.
AA;
(= ጸሱ፡) ጸስራብ፡
# m reads AN;
5 m reads Ei
16 am. mm reads
ትዓረt፡
B-u። 0ረti »5 ችዓረt፡
7 bB-BFEInx.
mg read መ0(3 9) PY:
(ትያ). Bሃ፣/።x ማዕምቃት፡ u reads ምድር፡
“8. ያያ read nAAY ("ት mn).
zu Omits.
m sé omits next Seven Words.
n g reads Aስhi hi:
1 m prefixes A.
e reads +hhስቱ:
5 eh omit.
5m, JcdI0%, gn ae/Bstnpovw read £05
aw omits.
4 g/u, nu read ወት7ሣ0;
5 ያ,8. a read ብCYH;
25 mw reads

Hhi: R04;
50.

7 9, fF prefix ©.

mt Bread BH; Ai

u BA:

= mw reads AE:

= 9 reads AC:

» u prefixes @. » prefixes H.

= wu reads

ጸዐዳ
53 gu read PR;
= e omits.
5» B., a omits,
55 wu reads AW;
7g, In.
Other MSS. APE
# omits next five words.
8 au, eFBInpy.
abcgitixa read AWN
0.9 APS
au. wu omits. 8-0 read Sብéi
0,45 ሣቡረ፡
“"ያመ።. 96 8 read RSብስትi
"mu. £ reads RYንብርY፡ 9 Aንስርች፡
ዕ 6 ጸናምርት፣ ። ጸናብር፡
SgFmu. 9,8 read AHA:
5 MSS. are here
divided as to the position of this word.
aéeFBrtnvwy support the text but
Bcdgiox
ay trans. DAW” after PAN.
Srm, Also Bcdoxs but in acc. 9g omits,

#, B~Bcdo xs ANAብYi = ጸብ;
7 trans. pA” after ARO. See preceding
note.
4 m, # reads ጽበ01i
9 omits. / reads Rጽብዒትi = BY;
‘c/n
ጸጽ0ብተ፡ So also 8 but that it trans. after 18; adehsowsxs omit.

169

ሄኛኻ፡

መጽሐፈፉ፡

LXXXIX, ro=15,

ወ“ሕራዊያ፡፡ ገዳም፡፡ ወቁናጽል፡። ወ“ገሐያት፡፡
ወ።“ሕንዘር።፦
ወ“ሆባድ;፣ ወፎቃንስ፡፡ ወ“ቋዓት;" ወትችወልደ፤ ማጻከሎመ፡ ሳህም፡
ዶትናሰኩ፡"

በበ“ይደናቲሆሙ፣

፩*ለ"ካልጹሉ፡

ማኣከሎሙ፡።“

ወሲደ፡።

ገዳም፡"

ጸፎገ፡

ወዝኩ፡

ወሲሲት፡፡
ጸዓዳ።

ወጸንስርት።
11. OጽJH:

ጸዓዳ፡

“ዘተፕወልደ፡

ምስሴሌሆ፡"

ወ“በዝቷ፡፣”

ሳባህም፡

ወ፣ሳህመ፡።“

ጸዓዳ፡

ጸጻዱገ;። ገዳም።
12. ወውኣጻቲ፡ ሳባህም፤ “ዘተወልደ፤ ኣምኔሁ፡፡ ወሰደ፡ ሐሕራዊያ፤።
ገዳም፤ ጸሲመ፡። ወበፃ0; ጺጸ0ዳ፡። ወውኣቱ፡። ወሰደ፤ ጸሕርወ፤ ብዙኃ፤;። “ወውጻቱ፡ በ70;
ወሰደ፡ ዐሠርተ፣ ወካልሌተት፣ ጸባ70።።
13. ወሰበ፣ ልህቁ፣ ዝኩ” ሂወጀጸባኝዕ፡
ሰጸሐዲዷ፡” ኣምኔሆመ፡፥ መጠውያዎ፡። ሰጸጻዲዷፃ፡። ወ“ኣልኩ፡። ጸጻዱን፡;። ኻዕበ፡ መጠውያዎ፡
ሲዝኩ፡ በ70; ሲ“ጸዝኣብት፡ ወልህቁ፡ ዝኩ፥ በ70; ማኣክሰሲ፡ ጸዝጻብት'።
14. AJL
ጸምጽጸመ፡፥

ለሂ፲ወጀጸባኝዕ፣፤

ጸዝኣብት፡

ወ“በዝኙ፤

“ከመ፡

ይሣድፉኗ፡

ምስሴሆሁ፡።

ወኮኒ፡።” መራዕዩ፡ ብዙጋተ፡"

ወ።ዶትችረበዩ፡

ዘጻባኘዕ።

ኣን" ይፈርህዎመ፡። ወ“ጸጽጠቅዎመሙመ፡። ኣስከ፣ ሇያኝልቁ፡። ደቁቆሙ፡፡
በውኘኒዘ፡ ማይ፡ ብዙሣ፤“ ወ።ኣልኩ፡" ጸባኘዕ; ወጠሃፉ፡ ዴጽርኙ፡።

ምስሴሆ፡።

ማኣክሰ፡

15. ወወ;

ጸዝኣብት

“ወገደፉ፡
*በጻን፡

ደቁዋሙ፡”
ደዩቁቀሙ፡፡

1 Fm. /u,l8 read hራውያ;
2 w omits.
5 a. 8 reads SRA
oO
rተሮads 1ሐያገ፣
ጌጨሔያነ፣
። ፉሕያ1፡
5 ገሔያቫ
2 Z9,k. m reads RYHC:
/ሕንዚረ፡

። ሐሕናዚረ፡

5-8 ሐገረ

ናያ,k.

a8, B-9ht read ሲሰተ፡

« ሲሴ

8 ቤሲች፡
7 Emended from a which reads @ (9 omits) RYNCY:; 8 reads ወRውስY;
or ጸውስት፣ (8).
5 a, 6. 8-8 read Pt:
sag, k. 9 reads ፎቁንAC: 8-8 read
ፎንቃበ፡

10 a=, &.

5 ZF reads

በB0i

au omits words.

PB

0.

m, B-R read #31:
5 a,g.

u ድ reads ትሰ

8-9 read ምስ

5 F repeats two preceding words.

OO

5B.

a reads AJ;

15 a omits next three words.

5 9 prefixes ©.

#9, a9cge% WY:
mFBrIoX,B read ቢዝ»;
read AEH:
Sm.
/ያuB read ሐhራው;
Rሲም; g፤0y omit. # omits also next three words.
next four words through hint.

8 adds ሐራ;

7 n reads በ7015

5 ይቫiሥጵ

4 9 adds © before HY .

3% PU

iE
OEDIERINR OE
FE RE
5 Fu, B-gioy.,
mg read
= 9 prefixes ©.
» # omits

Iዳ ም;

5 #B.

m reads IZ;

ያ ዳግ];

። ዳ};

25 m omits next four words through hmt.

5 aim,
መጠዎ;

Bb read AA:
m, omit.
ohB. ZureadB. m9 DE.
a # reads
5 08 omit together with next four words.
5 a, B~bcep. w reads

ዝኩ
ፀረይቷ ኣሱ ። ኣልኻቲ
ag w trans. after WO; su omits.
5 0b read
ማaከሰi
= u adds AጸዝAብYi
d omits next two words.
2 prefixes.
cd omit.
5 m reads 0H»: ohS:
vm
9 reads ብWyY; (sic). = ብH#H;
8 ብዙ»

4 Zu, my omit.

5 mg,

» ድፍርህዎመሙ
ረ/ዳ/a ፈርህዎሙ፡
ጸጠወቅዎመ፡፥
ሪ ጸጠየቅዎመሙመ፡
ፅ ጸጥወቅ".

read fA:
5 0 omits,

abrfox,b.

iu read ECVP

cd

8 ab% read
say, cFBiRInoB.
a im, abcdefloxab. #hFBisn)n

9 YA:
= omits.
5
omits through hmt. # omits initial ©.
5 m adds Ni. mn reads A: sw omits.
5 m, g9 read ACh;
ይ

170

መጽሐፈፉ፡

ዛኛኖካ፡

LXXXIX, I5~24.

ወ“ይሰኻዩ። ግበ፡ ኣገዚጾሙ።፡
16. ወ።በ70; ዘድሣኔ፤ ጻምህ ጸዝኣብነ'፡ iፈ0;፡
ወኘንሰፈ፡ ውስ ጸኣጻዷገ፡ ገዳም፡ ወርዚጺካዎመሙመ፡ ሰ“ጸባ70ት፡፡ ኣንዘ፡ የዘወይዉ፡ ወይጻጸርኙ።
ወይዴስጻልዎ፡፡

ሰጻገዚጸመ

በዙሱ፡

ጋይዴሎመ፡

ጻስከ፡፣ ወረደ

ዝኩ፥

ኣግዚጸ፡

ጸባ7ዕ;፡

3በ፡

ቃሎመ፡ ለጸባ0፣ ኣም።ጽርሣ፡፡ ልሁል፡ “ወበጽን፡ ገቤሆሙ፡፡ ወርኣዮሙ'።
17. ወ“ጸወውፆ፡"
ሰዝኩ፡ በ70; ዘተጋጥጾ፣፡ ኣምጸዝኣብት። ወተናገሮ፡ በጻንት፡ ጸዝኣጻብነ፡ ከመ፡ ስምዕ
ደቤሆሙ፡ “ከመ፡ ጴዴግስስዎመሙ፡። ሰጸባ7ዕ።
18. ወ“ሑረ፡ በ70፤; “"Jበ; ጸዝኣኳብት፣።
በቃሲ፡ ጻፇዚኳ፤ ወኳልአኣ፤ በ70; ተራከቦ፡።“ ወሖረ ምስሌሆሁ፡ ወሖፉ፡’፡ ወቦዙጽ፥ ክልሌሆሙ፡
ሣቡረ።

ውስተ፡፥

ከመ፡

ኣምዴጻላዜ፡።

ሰጸዝኣብኝ፡

ማግበሮመ፡

ወጻፎ፡”

20. ወጻዚጸሙ።

ሰ“ዝኩ፡።

ጸዝኣብገ፡

ወትናገርዎሙ፡፡

ዚይገሥመሥመዎመ፥

ሰ“ጸባ70ት

ጾንዑ፡

ፈጽፋደ፤

“በ; ጸባ70ዕ፡ በዙሰ፡።

መጽጽ፡

ሣቤሆመ፡

ሰሲሰጸባ7ዕ;፡ ወ“ጸንዘዙ፡።

ጸዝኣብት። ወ“ጸዝጻብገ፡።

ዘንዘ፡። የዘውድዉ፡።”

19.

ወጸባ70፡

ወጸስምዐፁ።

ዲቤሆሙ

ወ“ጻምኔሁ፡”"

ርጺዎመሙ፡

ጋይሎመሙ፡።፡፣

ወጸባ7ዕ፡

ዶዝብጥዎመሙመ፡።

ጸርመመ፡፥

ጸርኙ።

*“ለኣልኩ፤”

ወኣምሶቤሃ፡

ፀርኙ።

21. ወርጺኸዎሙ፤
“ሲሰጸባኘዕ0፤ ኣስከ፣፡ ወፀሉዙ፡ ጻምጸዝኣብት፡
ወ“ጸዝኣጻብት፣ ችጸሰሱ፡።
ጸዐዕድንፒቲሆሙመ፡ ወወፀጹ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ዴትልውዎመሙመ፡ ሰጸባ7ዕ፡ ዝኩ” ጸዝኣብት። በ“ዙሱ። ጋይሎሙ፡።
22. ወጻግዚጸመሙ፡ ሰጸባግዕ፡ ሖረ፤ ምስሌሆሙ ኣንዘ፡ ይመርሖመ፡፥ ወ“ዙሎመ፡፣ “ጸባ7ዒሆ፡
ተሰውዎ፡። ወገጺ፡ “ስቡሕ፤ ወካቡር፡ ወግፉም፡ ሰርኣይ።።
23. ወ።ጸዝሓጻብት'ሰ፡ ጸሐ
ዴዶትልውዎመ፡ ሲ“ዝኩ፡። ጸባኘዕ0ጎ፡። ኣጻስክ፡;። ተራከብዎመ፡ በጸሕቲ፡ ዐፀዶ፣፡ ማዴ።
24.
ወ“ውጻቲ፡

ዐይገ፡ ማደ፡። ትሠጠ፡" ወቁመ፡”

' ያመ, B-&.

9, ቋ read ድስኸዩ፡

ማደ፤

/ ዴሰክዩ።

ጻምዝዩ፡ ወኣም’ሽዩ፡። በቅ.ፎመ፤

። ሰከዩ፡

ገጾሙ

2 ሠ reads AIHA: R70;

5 aw omits.
“Fu. Other MSS. IEA: wu prefixes ¥.
5 Fu.
mg, Bc read
ጸባ7ዕ0፡; “ በ70;
5 m reads ስዎ
7 m reads Ahan;
s adds
AምጽCሕi
u omits next three words.
5 #, 6 read ጽር:
15 ድ, ሃ read Rው 0p;
i ai,
mw omits. 8 reads AON;
15 iu reads DጺINA
3 rm omit.
# 2 omits.
5» {8-4 add ለውኣቱ፡ በ705
4 adds ለውኣቱ፤
። omits next three
words.
6 mg.
Zu, 8 omit.
7 a. Breads AAW
1s m trans. after next
word.
aa omits.
» FmL
9u, 8B read R70;
20 m,f read AEP
ኣም
ጸንዚ
OTT

1 m reads AE; mw omits.
5 mm adds RCD; ©.
5 am. m,B read
5 a. B reads £Hብnan
5 greads A.
se reads AAA:
። omits.
7 m,n omit. g trans. after RYH:
# after Rta
5 we omit.

SFI abFIRINRX.
mt cdehoy,a read 3ይ
# Rta
0 # reads ሲ.
1 #, ፀ% read TAA
5 Fg,
m reads HME;
wu omits.
8 reads AA:
5 g reads R70; hስሌሆi TAs
“rm. So also / save that for ACA: it reads
ሲርጂይ፡
ያ። ead ስቡሕ፡ ወፃፉም፡ ሰርጽዶይ፡
5-። ስቡሕ፡ ወፃፉትም፡ ራኣዩ፣ ወኳቡር፡
a 3ፉም፤ ወስ" ወራ" ካዛ".

5 m omits.

5 Fg

m8read

AAW:

n,n

omit.

Tau, wl3read A730;
= m reads Aoi
» ab omit. wu trans. alter Twi
» e reads ተሠ;
SYሠT#i
"ac read pi
= omits.

RRR

SE

መጽሐፈ፡

ወጻፃፓዚደመሙ፡

ኣንዘ፡ ይመርሖመ፡፥

ወ“ዓዲሆሙ፡?

ዝኩ

ጸዝጻብት።

ዛኛኝ፡

171

ወ።ቐመ።። ማኣከሱሉመ፡

ወማኣክለ፡

ጸዝኣብት።

ዚጺርኣይዶዎመሙ፡፡ ሰጸባ70;፣ ወሑሖፉ፤ “ማኣከሰ፤

25,

ዝኩ፡፣ ዐይ፣፡

ማይ፡ ወ።ጸዝጻብት፡ ትሰውዎመ፡፥ ሰጸባንዕ፡ ወሮጸ፥ ድሣሬሆመ፡፡ |ኣልኩ፥ ጸዝኣብት፥|'"
ሲሰዝኩ፡ ዐዴኘገ፤ ማድዴ።
26. ወሰበ፡ ርጻድዎ፤ ሲ“ልግዚጸሙመ፡ ሲሰጸባ70ት። "ገብጽ፡ ከመ፤።
ድጕናዩ፡። ኣምቸፎድመ፤ ገጺ፡ ወ“ዝኩ፡ ዐዴገ፣፤ ማይዴ፡ ትጋብጸ፤ ወኮኔ፡"፡ ከመ ፍጥረቱ" ፍጠጤህ።
ወ“መልጸ፡፡ ማዴ;። ወትሳባበሰ; ኣስከ፣ ከደኖመሙመ፡፥ ሰ“ጻልኩ፡፡ ጸዝኣጻብት።”
57. ወርኩ
ጻስከ፡” ተሐኾሰ፡ ሹሎመ፡ ጽዝኣብት፡። ኣሰ፡። ተለወዎመ፡

“ለዝኩ

ጸባ70; ወትሠጥመሙ፡።

28. ወ።“ጸባኘ0ሰ፡

ኃለፉ”

ጳምዝኩ፡።

ማደ፡

“ውስት፡

በድው፡።

ኘግበ፥ ጸልቦ፡

“ና;

ወጸጋዜ፡

“ድካመ

ጸዕዴንቲሆመሙ፡፥

ወ'ይሬኣጻዩ፤”

ወርጺኩ፥

ኣገዚጸሙ

ማዩ

ወዝኩ፣

ኣንዘ፡።

“የሐውር

ወሣዕ0ረ;=”

' ለጸባኘ0፡

ድዶርዕዮመ፡።

ወደሁቦመ፡፥

ወ ይመርሖሙ።

29. ወዐርገ; ዝኩ;

ወጻፓዚጸመ፡

ፈኔዎ፡;" ገቤሆሙ።

ጸባ70፡

ዘቐመ፡

ሰጸባንዕ፣

ቅፎሟሆመ፡፥

ጸባ70፤ ርጻይያዎ፤ ወፈርሁ“

1 mw omits.
wu omits.

ወራኣዩ፣

Jበ;
Aባ70:

በ70;

ዲበ; ድማጋ;።” ሰዝኩ፤ ኵቸሹሕ፡። ነዋሕ

30. ወልምኔሆመሙመ፡።

ርዎ”

ሰጻንዚይ

“0ቢይ፡፤ ወ“"3ግኗም፡ ወጋሇያል፡ ወ“ሸሎመሙ፡፣
81. ወሸሎመ፡

2 ac read Paw

ጳልኩ፤፥ ይፈርሁ“

5 » reads APRA:

5 u, dg omit.

save that it omits R. aRRCN.

ወሣዕረ፡
በ70;

ኣምገጺጽ።*

B reads AN;

ወወፀዶጽ፡

SS mgwB~a.

ዝኩ“

ወ“።ዴርዕዲ፤።

# omits.

# reads RCA

' 5 adds pti ANA; Hh AAባ70:

tai,
and so #

* « reads

omits next five words.
" Either an interpolation or a corruption for AAAS
as Flemming has recognized.
um au. a# Omits., B~ece read በHh

ዕረex በውጻቱ

5.

mgu,B-b read AJ" A705

/ 5 AፃዚR፡ ጸባ.

ወገብጽ፡
5 Iብጽ፡ # omits.
4 u reads ‘PE
5 m reads Dhéi
15 pm reads rey;
7 gu omit,
is mm trans. after +AOA; a omits.
Other MSS. +AOA; or +YA3A;
” e omits next five words through hmt.

5 m reads
e omits.
i
= 9 adds

ከደኖ ©. 7 omits.
= u,agomit.
# s omits.
= £9. m,l8~aef read AAA:
ae$A. womits.
“Bcomit,
# mn trans.
gm read APH: 9 prefixes ©.
25 g omits.
5 F/u. m reads 00; ማይ; DOC:
9 IE; D"I0¢i 8-0 Ei
ወ"I0C; 0 06; ወ"I0C፡
0 Fg. Other MSS. CARE
1 m reads CAD
a CRF

= ng, 8. #/read AH:

ድ adds ኣምዚ፡ የሐሕውር፣ ወይመርሖመሙ፡
55 e omits,

Jf B-Brox,

u omits.

ወፀርኘ፡ በ70;

ah bX read &lD;

mi abcgifInox,ay read aii

s/h AW:

#8.

5 Fu.

af omit.

™ wu omits.

Other MSS. oy:

#09 iP

” fg! = uera Taira.

u omits.

5 dg reads CRW

0 a, 0. 8 omits.
# am. m, 8 read AAW
“= 4 reads CYP; «8 omit together
with next four words.
# w omits next three words.
# g prefixes ©.
“eh omit.
"5 wu reads COS

172

መጽሐፈ፡

ኣምኔሁ፡

ወይጻርኙ፤

ድሣወሆ፡

ዛኛኖካ፡

ሲ“ዝኩ፡፡ በ70; ምስሴሆመ፡፡

ዚንክል፡ ቀሾመ። ቅፎመ፡ ኣግዚኣ ወጺገጽሮተ።
ወዐርኘ፡

በፎድማንኝ፡፡ ዝኩ

ኣም"ፍኖት፡

ኩሹሕ፤

ወጸባኘ0፤

ኣንተ; ጸርጸየዮየመ፡ ወዝኩ

ጸጋዘዙ። ዴጸሰሱ፡፣

በ70; ዚያኣመረ።

“መ0ተ፡ ዐቢዩ; ወጸኣመረ፣ ዝኩ

ሲ’ኩሕ፤

ኘበ፡ ጸባኘ01፡" ወረከበ፡

ወኣሰ፡።
ከመ፡

ስሕቱ።።
ዴግብጽ፥

34. ወሰበ፣፡
ሰ“ጸ0ጻ.ፎ፡።

ጸባ70፡; ወቦዞ፤ ኗደበ፡። ዝኩ"

ርጻዴድዎ፡

ዚጸሆሙ።፡

Aan]?

ወዴስሕቱ፡"

33. ወጻኘዚጸመሙመ

ሲ“ጸባ70፡

ዘ“"መብዝሣተመ፡
ፈርሁ፡

ወርዕዲዷ፡

ኣምሃ

ኣምቅ.ድፎመ፤

በ70;

ውስት

ጸዕጻኗሆሙ።።

36. ወርዚክ፡፥

ወሐነጻ፡

ቤተ።

ጸባ70;

ፎድማጋ፤"፣

ዘ“"ጽሱስል፡ ጸዕዶገንቲሆሙመ፡
ነይ

ገጺ፡ ወፈቅዲ፡

ምስሴሆሁ፦

ዘባ70;' “ኣሰ፡ ስሕቱ፡። ወጸንዘ፡” ይቅትሎመሙ፡”

ኣም።ገጺ፡› ወጸገብጸመ“፡

ስመ:

ጸዕይንቲሆሙ፡፡

በ70; ወወረደ፤

35. ወዝኩ፥

ፈርሁ

ሰኣገዚጸ፡

[HUN

332. ወገብጸ፡ ዝኩ፡ በ70; ዘይመርሖሙ?

ተምዕዐበ;። ኗቤሆሙመ።።

ወመጽጸ፣

LXXXIX. 31-30.

ባዕደ:

ወ።ጸባግዕ፡"

ውኣኳቲ፡ በ70; ሰጻልኩ፡” ጸባኝዕ፤ ኣሰ፤ ስሕቱ፤ ወ“ገብዙ፡”

በዝራኣድ፡። ኣስከ፡። ውኣቱ፡። በ70; ከኔ ብኣሴ፡

ወ“ለዙ፡።”

“ጸባ70፡

ጸቁዋሞመ፡"

በ“ውኣቱ፡

+ w omits.
2 Fmng. #8 read ምስሌሁ: sw omits.
$$ Fu.
a dittography (so Beer). mg read ለል: 070; HUN; (+ ምስሌሆሙ

ቤት።

Bracketed as
9) ማAaከሎሙ

ዕ 8 ዘሀ ሰኳልእኣ፡ በ70; ዘኮ፤፡ ማልከሎሙ፡
¢ Fnnyx. Other MSS. omit.
0
read HC;
5 F(PYgu, apcdehtina.
m reads ቢ£ማWi and trans. after
ኵኩቸዙሕ፡ ዕ/#፣0x,5 read በድማጋ፤
7 9 reads AH:
# omits.
Sg, B-aox,w.

መያ aox8 read AAሱ፡
0 au, ageB0b.

9 ዴዴሰሱ፥

። ትጸሰሱ፡

BeFsfinx,a read ስሐ

» au (mI Y0Yi),

ay/ BEX.

AONPG

u,8 trans.

au.

2 wu omits next seven Words.
u ZF omits.

5 m adds AHN;

wcgerno0,ap read YO; or YY
gu, 0b.

mg, 8-0 read EWI

# #reads
fu read

ሲይጻቲ፣
‘55 ሲዝ
5 Z/u. Other MSS. R70;
# omits next six words.
wv Fmt ayknsw. Other MSS. omit.
9g omits.
™ m reads AAA; c PAA:
= 8 ads ጸምፍኖቲ
529. m reads AO4AY: / 8 08; w omits.
4 a~7.
m reads 0" RN” in nom. B reads በ08;
= a, though m trans. after RN70; 8 reads
Jበi
a. 8 reads AAW
u omits. m adds from end of verse PIR; ውስ;
ጸዕባዳፒቲሆመሙ፡
5 mu. mg imply this text in the corrupt reading AIH: /, § read
ወላጻምዝ፡ ጸገ
5 መያ read ቅት
0 / reads A705
wu omits.
nu, x read Nምቸ.ድመ፡
5 @eFBRnpaw read AABAN'E:
5 / reads "JAR:
x m7), BF topw x,a,b read ROASTER » RARዊVPS
» gmt. 9 reads lh:
ራኣይ: u omits. B reads yt; ራAt:
55 im, 0 read Aoi
a omits.
57 wu reads
Uy

gሹዙሎሙ፡

5 é omits next three words.

“» u reads ወጸ AR.

3 au.

“ m reads 0.

w omits,

B~d read Af

LXXXIX. 31-41.
37. ወርጺኩ፥
ወርዚኩ፡

መጽሐፈ:

ኣስከ

ኣስከ;

ሰከበ።

ተጋኮሰ፡፥

ዛኛኻ፡

ውጻቱ፡

በ70፡

ዘተራከቦ፡

“ለዝኩ፡

በ70;

ዘመርሖመሙ፡፡

ሹሎመ፡።፣

ጸባን0፡

*0ቢያን፡

ወንጽሰን፡።

ትንሠመጽ፡

ህዩየንቱሆሙ፡

ወቦጽ፡ ውስተ መርዓት ወቁርቡ፡፡ ኘበ፡;" ፈለገ; ማዴ።
።ዘከኔ፡ ብኣሴ፡፣

ተሴሰዩ፡።

ኣምኔሆመ።፣

ደቤሆሁ፡።” “ጽራዝ፡ ዐቢዩ።"

173

ወሰከበ፡

35. ወዝኩ፡ በ70; ዘ“ይመርሖመሙ፡።

ወሸሎመ፡

ጸባ70;

39. ወርጵኩ፣ ኣስከ፡ ጸርመመ፡"

ጋሠሥዎ፡፡

ልም “ጽራች፣

ወጻጸርኙ፡

ለዝኩ፡ በ70;

ወ“:ጋሰፉ፡;" ሰ*ዝኩ፡ ውሒዘ፣ ማይ፡ ወ።ቁሙ፡። ጸባፃ0;። ካልሌሆመሙ፡። ኣሰ; ይመርሕዎመሙ፡
ትካሎመ፡።”

ሲኣኳሰ፡ ሰከቡ፡።” ወመርሕዎሙ፡።

በመካን;

ሠናይ፡”

ወበ“ም.ድር፤

40. ወርጺኩ፡

ጋኃዋሽዝ;። ወስብሕገ፡።

ጻፃግቡ፡ ወውኣቱ፡

ቤኝ፡ ማጻከሎመ፡።

ጸዕዴንቲሆመሙመ፡

“ወቦ፡ ሶበ;

በምድር፣

ዴጴሰሱ፡።

ሓኣስከ፡ ዴበውጹ፡

“ኣልኩ

ጸባ70;። ልስከ፣

ወርኩ

ጋኃዋዝሽ።

ኣስከ;።

ጸባኘ0፡።

41. “ወቦ; ሰበ፡። ይችትክከሠት።

ትችንሥመጸ፣

ካልኣ፡

በ70; ወመርሑሖመሙመ፡።

ወጸንገብጸመ“ ሰ“ሹሎመ፡ ወ“ትከሥተ፡" ጸዕዶንቲሆሙ።

1 m reads AN;

wu omits.

2 sé trans. after 030;

5 i# reads ©.

‘Z B~0,

Z reads Hh A070: = ው: 0. 9 omits. u reads ሊ o ለው: 0.
ARM); for ሰጸባ70;5 This addition 8 accepts but trans. after HoCav;
end of last note,

s« reads HEC

0,9 HoCሆ;

5 ss reads havi

#/ adds
5 See

7 sé omits,

s wu reads 10" O00" and omits next five words.
9 mm reads ቁር:
0 g adds
ሕሐድዴወት፡ ወ.
u # reads £11; dg adds hደወትi ©.
5 8 read CPs
8 g prefixes ©.
u omits ey;

# » adds fHመዋOA;
5» go read J:
7 # omits next seven words,
5a omits.

15 au. B trans,
»Fmg.
Bd

read JAE; 4 Jሲሰፍዎመሙ
pi
u adds AA
which is here impossible.

። ads ሲዝኩ፡ በ70; ወጋሲሰፍዎ፤
። omits.
= «8 read
Bf Omit
5 Fmended from WN of au, 8
The two leaders are Joshua and Caleb. ae##s trans.

tras

before

5%

® m,B.

# reads TUN

A.

5 2. Other MSS. ሰhnt
55 a, Breads ©.

a

next

four words

# omits

27 m omits.

and the

5 a. B reads ውስትi

= n trans. m reads ANY: B73:

55።ሪ ወቦ; Jበ፡ = ወጸብሕት፡

። ወቦ

following

©.

together with next three words.

omits next eleven words through hmt, (2).

apc deoy read ወስብሐi
ወገበ፡

fF omits
/ Tht

” bc trans.
a B~a9cdeob.

= a-mn. m, read

፳ omits next four words through hmt.

5 iu. m, 8 read Yh
5 0b
m reads phi JH
a omits. B-ino
read ph: Yi
። 0; Lh: ወቦ: Lh: 5 ወሰበ
5 ያ/ 45». mob read ዴል
9,18 £AAሱ: au omits.
next eight words
+ ©.

ትከሥታ፡

a#& read ዴል!
bce/nx ድሳ
5 RAMI
” =u omits
5 mn reads HEC
au,
t# omits. B reads

174

መጽሐፈ፡

ሄኛካ፡

RXR

42. ወጸጋዘ፥ ጸካሳብ፡ ወቈናጽል፡ ወሕራዊያ፡፡ ሐቅል፣፡ ይብልዕዎመ፡ ሰ“ዝኩ፡። ጸባ7ዕ፡
ኣስከ፡። ጸንመጸ፡፡ [ካልጻ፡ በ70;]° *ጻ7ዚይ፡ ጸባ70፡;፡ ጀኣምኔሆመ፡፥ ሐርጌ ዘ“ ይደመርሖመሙ።፡፣
43. ወዝኩ፥

ሕርኘጌ፤

ጸጋዘ፡፡

ወሕሐራዊያ፡

ገዳም;

ጻስከ፤ ሰሹሎመሙመ፡" ዘሣኮሎሙ።

ይዴወፃኣ፡፡

ጻምዝዩ፡""

ወ“ኣም"ዝዩ፡

ዝኩ፡።

44. ወ።ውኣቱ፡

ጸክሳበ፡

ወ“ቁናጽለ፡

በ70;'፡ ዘተፈትሐ፡

ጸዕደንቲሁ፡። ርኣዩ” ዝኩ” ሕርጌ፣ ዘማሓጻክከሰ፣ ጸባ7ዕ፡ ዘሐዶደገ፡ ስብሐተ፡ ወጸሐዚ፡
ደጕድጸመሙመ፡። ለ“ዝኩ፡። ጸበፃ0; ወኬደመ፡። ወሑረ፡ ዘኣንበሰ፡ ተ.ፎሳ።
45. ወኣግዚጸሙ፡
ሰጸባ7ዕ፡ ፈነዎ፤ ሰ“በ70;።” ኘበ፤ ካልሓ፤ በ70; ወጸንሥደይ;። ከመ፡ ይኩን፡። ሕርኘ፣ ወይመ

ርመ፡። ሰጸባኘ0;” ህየንገ፡ ዝኩ፡፥ “ሕርኘ፡ [በ70;]" ዘሐዶደገ፡ ስብሕሂቲሁ።።
46.
ወሖረ;። Jግቤሆ፡ ወትናገሮ፡። ሰባሕቲቱ፡። ወጸንሥመይ፤ ሰውኣጻቱ፡ ሐርኘ፤ ወ“ገብሮ፡። መኩ ንኔ፡።
ወ“ሣመራሒ፤ ሰክባ70፡ ወ“በዙሱሽ፡። ጸኻሳባብ፡። የጽህቅዎመሙ፡።” ለጸባ7ዕ።"
47. ወ።ሕርኘ፡
ቁዳማዩ፡ ሰደደ፡። ለዝኩ፥ ሕርኘ፣ ዳሓራዊ፡። ወትገሥመጸ፣ ዝኩ“ ዳሕራዩ" ሕርጌ፡“ ወነፍጺ፡"
ኣምቅድመ፡ ገጺ” ወርጺኩ፡፥ ኣስከ ጽውደቅዎ፤ ዝኩ" ጸክሳብ፡" ሰ“ሕርጌ፤ ቁዳማዊ።

48. ወዳግራዊ፡”
1 mg.

ዝኩ፡።

ሐርጌ፡

ትንመጸ፡”

tu,l8 read ወሐhራውያi

ወመርሑሖመ፡

ሰጸባኘዕ፡”። |ገጹስ፡]” ወ*ዝኩ”

4 adds JA: oD.

: a.

B reads AAW

5 Nm reads ©.
+, B= Greek jyepe.
Other MSS. corruptly give Yl”
owing possibly to the succeeding gloss being in the nom.
° m reads Nap
cu, bgloxy,ay omit—an emendation attempted because of the corrupt YiA:

7 g reads ር;
s gy» read AH:
os Hይደመርሖw; AJ:
2 £,e. Other
MSS. ድውጋ0;
0 wu reads AYE
u e omits.
5 mg. # reads Hh.
uw YE:
Boy an:
Sos ልቱ:
mou read next two words in nom.
5 m omits.
# 0, e omit.
5 fbB-a. #9 read Ns
a Ati
mu omit.
1s Greek gives Ti npdBara, i.e. the faithful Israelites, and probably this is right. The
singular would mean Samuel but Samuel is called Skyds in the next Verse.
TRA
here supplied H before +&" in accordance with the Greek. As the text stood 070;
was the subject of Y&." and AO" the acc. of limitation. But this construction in

the case of ፈት: or Thትi vith AOE:
is, so far as 1 am aware,
unexampled.,
shows its consciousness of this by inserting ahi before T&." and
thus rightly making AO" the subject, as is the case everywhere else.

15 » prefixes

በአም;
" All MSS. read ወርARI
a, a/p8Inopvy
BScgesx,a read Hr;
21 af0y ap read ኮድ
= am. 7m reads AAW 8 AንE:
5 fF omits.
= a omits.
5 Greek has ray fipva rotroy. g reads A720;
omits next four words.
5 mt, f read PRIA;
7 c omits,
25 9. መሃu, 8 ድምርሑመሙመ፡
5 wu omits

next six words.

0 dg. Other MSS. read 070;

52 wu omits next three words.
ፃ በባሕ".
55 reads ffi

መኻ;
ጸካልብ፡

ግ መ eas
። ወጸክሳብ፡

5 floy,ab read ስብሐ

535 g reads YSI¢:
5 mL 8. ድ reads Aባሐቲችሙ፡
# omits with next four words.
5B. pay Tea

በዙሉ ዘ.
። በዝ ሹሱ፡
5 adds ኣልኩ
55 9 reads
5 m, glo a,b read ያጽhብpi
9%, 8-105 ጽO0Y".

EXXRXIER S24,

መጽጠፈ፡

ሄኖ

175

Ek Tog Tog Eyax BBAtoy

Xpjjres.

432, Kai oi kiyves Joéayro karegiety Ta Tpdf3ara kai oi tes kat oi GXénekes
KaTilrgtoy avrd, expt og ilyetpey 6 kiptos Tay npolBdray Koby €ya ¢x TOy
)

#

ኣ

Ley

TpoBareoy.
43. kal 6 Koos ofiros ijjpéaro kepariCety kai eruBtdkeyl €y Tots
ፆ
|
ጋ
[4
hy)
ND
ey
Txepartyi 1 kat [FDéverivarreyl
eisBa Tobsኣ GNTékas
kai LE [er 3 abroys
1 eis8 Toysኣ tas
Kai\
ana Aerey (iias ToXAOyS kai eT’ avroys X¥ XXX XT) Toys KUyasls,
44, kai

ra TpdfBara, 6y oi GpgaXNiuot yoy ray, €Oéedrayro? Toy Kpuoy Toy éy rois TpoBdrous,
tes og apikey Tv {6899»“ abroD kat ijoéaro Topeter
gat Svogia?.
45. kat 6
Id
ጦ
[4
3
/
LA
KUptos
TOy
TpofBdrey
Sanérretkey
Toyኣ tipya
5 Togroy €Tt Gpya €repoy Tog rilrat
NN
2)
eS
IN
[4
ጋ
ላ
3
#
N
[ን
atr6y
eis3 KptOyኣ €yን DX]
T6y
Tpol3dreay
Gyr
Tog[ey xptoD[ey Togሓ dbeévros
ily
1 680y
N

\

ey

ወ

ን

መሓ

N

€

4

\ኣ

ን

መ

ኢ

hd

ን

[ey

ን

[Le

avToy,

ኣላ

46.

Kat

ኮ)

#

€ropeuygn

\ኣ

2

DOS

መ

#

iN

iN

avroy

ጋ

Kat

p

B

Ni

\

[A

መ

+)

eAaAIey

መሓ

aura

t

[

ty]

nl

t

Kara

[I

\

ፆ

uoyvas

kat ilyetpey ayroy eis Kpuby kai eis tpxora kai eis Jlyovevoy Ty TpoBdrey.
kai oi Kiyes én Tat royrovs €OXt/3oy Ta TpéfBaTa.
47. [éé£iis B€ Toros Yéyparrat, Bru] 7 6 Kpuss 6 Tpéros T6y Kpuby Tov Betirepoy
ereBiekeys.,
kai €pvyey Any poréToy aro.
#eir’ égedpovy, [ሐneiy,] Tov
ኣ

LA

ኣ

KDtOy

ኣ

[an

TOV

ef

RDOTOV,

an

€OS

OU

Ld

cnégey

ey

Ls

€uTpo

[ei

Oey

TOV

[i

KUVOy

9

a

ኣ

48,

kat

€

0

ኦነ

KDtos

1 Corrupt for Kuve,
5 Eth.= atroys mdvras,
5 Eth.=T9 pdigaroy JIvoiynay
oi G@pOaMuoi arog kai eigey Or 79 mpéfgaroy votyn Toys Gpbaእuoys abroy wai eigey, but the

construction in the latter case seems unexampled.
is to be followed here, but emended

See note 117.

Hence the Greek

into 79 mpdi3aroy og ... egedaro;

for this verse

should refer to Samuel as the phrase Ty fipva rotroy in Ver. 43 proves.
=
Sdéay, and this seems to be the true text. See next note.
s Eth.=dgofia and
apparently rightly.
° Eth. =mpdBaros.
' An addition of the scribe of the fragment,
s Eth. adds ai gyveriBlre 6&6 pos (éeeivos) 6 Bevrepos.
KaTéBaNoy
#

2 Eth, = kai cgeopovy €as og

oi Kuyes Toy KDtoy TOy TDoToy,
¢

ፆ

ላ

ላ

ላ

40 # Omits next SiX Words.

መ

41

n omits.

5 mg# prefix H.

ቁዳማዊ፤

ያ ዳሕራዩ፤

/ 5 read ደጋራዊi

ZጋራEi

። omits.

5 Zu, B trans. before Ahራዊ;

1ደፈ፡ 18

a aim.

*# m prefixes 0.

m reads AA: (sic).

#9.

J 2 tread H&A;

Bn AA:

A;

43

Z£.

m reads

miu, Bn read
45 m reads

hh BY

omit.
1 £9. mp Bread ጋJራpi
8 trans. J after ሐርቱ;
=SmB. am
read AH; which is practically untranslatable.
5
8, but Bcdioxy,ay trans.

before Hi
ሐ'ደ'ችን'.

CT: (i.e. YY hi ሐ Ei whilst ae/ Bt Inpvrw read pHi
See note 55). #Z reads lA
mg wai
# omits,
8 g trans.

before oC".

5 8. mi, Bread JRA}

5 f B-Bcloy.

#9 read AH: a corruption of Whi

of AW:

ss omits,

gu JR; which # trans. alter CE

m, Scio,a8 read Hi a correction

176

መጽሐፈ፡

ሐርኘ፡

ወለደ:

ጸባን0;

ብዙኃ

ወሰክበ፡

መንነ

ወከ፤፡ መራሒ;

ወሸዙሎመ፡

ኣልኩ፡፡

ጸካሳብ፡ ወቈናጽል፡

ወ“ውኣቲ;፡

ሕርኾ፣

ኮድ"

ማኣክለ;።

ጸባ70;"

ቤት

ኮ፤፡ ዐቢዩ;

ሰ“ጻልኩ፡፡

ወርኘበ፡

ተሐሕንጸ፤ ደበ፡ ቤት”

ወትጋንጸ፡

“ለኣግዚጸ፡

ወበኘፃ0;

ጸባ70።;?
ሹሉ

ንጹስ፤

ኮ፤፣ ሐርኘጌ፤

ገዳም;

ጸራዩት፣

ፃሙራ፥

EXXXIX #88

49. ወልህቁ፡

ወሐራዊያ።።

ወዋተሰ፤

ወ“ምንተኒ፡።"

ዛኖቹ:

ሰ“ዝኩ፡።

ጸባ;

ጸባ70;። ወትሃወተ፡።

51.

ወርሏጺኻዎመ“

ዕበ፡።

ጸባ70፡

ዳፃገመ፡፡

ኣልኩ"

ኣምኔሆ፡
ጸራዊ

50. ወዝኩ

(ወን"ማሣፈፎ፡”

“ነዋሣ፤ ወዐቢድ፡

“ዝኩ

ሰ“ዝኩ፡።”

ኣልኩ፤

ኣምኔሆሙ።

ወክ ነዋኝ፡ ወኣንዚይ፡ ጸባ70፡ ቁመ፡ ኗጃበ፣፡ ውኣጻቲቱ፡ ማሣፈደ፣
በቅድሆሁ።

ወከኮዞ፡

ፈርሁ፡፣ ወነፍዷ፡፡

ወጺኻህሱ፡

ጽመሠጡ፡"

ወበዝኙ፤

ህዩንቴሁ፡

ቤትነ” ወማሣፈድሰ፡

ትሳፀለ፡።

ወማኣደ፤

ጸቅረበ፡

ጸባኘ0ዕ;”"

ምልኣተ;

ካዕበ፡።

ከመ

ስሕቱ

።ወሑሖፉ፥ በብዙሕ፡ ፍናዋት፡። ወሐደ
ዝኩ፡። ቤተ፡ ዚጸሆሙ፡ ወጻግዚጸሙ፡ ሰጸባኘዕ፡;።
ጸውዐ;። ኣምውስቴትመ፡፥
ለጻባኘዕ;። ወለጸኮከሙመ፡ ንበ፡
ጸባኘ7ዕ; ወ“ጸባ70;=
ጸጋዚ፡
ድቅችልዎሙ።
52. ወጀጻምኔሆሙ ድግ ወጺትቁቀት'ሲ;። ወቁነጺ፡።” ወጸርኝ፡ ደበ፡ ጸባ7ዕ፡
ወፈቁጃዷ፡ ይቅትልዎ፤ ወኣግዚጸ፡ ጸባ70፡ ጽፎጋኖ፡። “ኣምኔሆመ፡። ለጸባግዕት፡። ወጸዕረን፡
Jግቤዩ፡።

ወጸገንበሮ።

53.

ወ“ካልጻሃ"

ጸባ70፡; ያስምዐዑ፡“። ወ“ናጸውይደዉ፡"”

ጸባኘ0;"

ደቤሆሙ።፡።

ቤተ፡ ሰ“ጻንዚኳኣ፡” ወማሣፈደ፡”' ጳምዙሹሱ፡”
ኣፓገዚጸ፡

ጸባፃ0;

ከመ፡

ገብረ፡

ቀትሰ፡።

ብዙጋኔ;።

ፈነወ፡“

54. ወኣምኔሁ፡።

ስሕቱ፡። ወትጸለሰ፡።
ብዙኘ፡።

ደቤሆሙ፡

Jግቤሆመ፡

ሰዝኩ፡፥"

ርኩ

ጋይ

ሶበ;

ጸዕይዴንቲሆመ፡
በመራዕይሆሙ፡”።”

ወርኩ
ኣስከ

ድጴውዕዎ፡፤ ኣልኩ፥ ጸባኘዕ፡ ሰ“ዝኩ፡ ቁትል፤ ወ“ጸፃብጹ፡። መኻኖ።
55. ወሐደገመሙ፡
ውስት፡ ኣደ፤ ጸናብስት፤ ወጸንምርት፡። ወጸዝጻብት፡።” ወጸጽዕብት፡" ወውስኝ፡ ኣደ፡ ቈናጽል፡።
ወዷደበ፡ ሰ
ጸራዊት፡ ወ"ጸሐዘዙ፡። ዝኩ; ጸራዊ ገዳም፤ ይምሥጥዎመሙመ፥። ሰ“ጻልኩ፡።
ጸባ7ዕ።
56. ወርጺሕዎ፤። ከመ; ሕደሃ፡። ሰዝኩ፡ ቤ፥ ዚጸሆመ፡። ወማሣፈደመሙ፡።
ወ።ወደዮመ፡" ሰሸዙሎሙ፡፥ ዲበ” ሓደ፡። ጸናብስነ፡ ከመ፡። ድይምሥጥዎመ።። ወከመ፡
ዶብልዕዎሙ፡። ውስተ፤ ኣደዩሆሙ፡ ሰሹዙሎሙ፡ ጸራዊት።
57. ወ“ጸሃ፡። ጸጋዝኩ፡ ኣጽራሕ፣
በዙሱ፤

ኃዴይልዩ፡፡ ወ።ጻጸውያ;

ሰጻኘዚጸ፤

ጸባኘዕ፡;። ወጸርኣዩ፣" በኣንተ፡ ጸባፃዕ1;"

ኣስመ፡።

‘gmp
So also 9, 8-9 d510y save that they omit hy #, g/oy,ay read only
መራጨ፡ ዕ መራሒ፡ ወመኩ" ወመርሑሖመሙ፡
2 a,b, BBs read ኣቱ
5 m omits
next four words through hmt.
‘au, Bcifina. ob read ANE: #, age/8y
omit.
‘mg. /u, Bread hራው:i
° 9 omits.
mg prefix®.
* # reads
ወiፈg;
፡ ። omits.
» 9 reads PEA
Syoxy Pg
™ 5 reads Ai wu omits
with next word.
= n# reads YPውTi
5 u omits next four words.
Fx omit,
15 m, eh read YY!
15 F reads RFrwጡ;
17 m reads 'HYE:
1s a. B reads
ኣልኩ
5 All MSS. omit.
ግ መ, [no abadd 1ዋሣ፡ £0; ዝኩ ቤት፡ ወማሣፈድ፡
1g, /10ab. So m save that it inserts NYE: before ቤት; and so also #, in save that

LXXXIX, 48-5.

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛኻ፡

177

6 Beyirepos dayannbras é@nyraro r&y npoBdarey 1,
49. kai Ta TodBara
nUEl0Mray Kat €nAOUvOM ray. Kat mdvrés oi Kiyes kai oi QXéTekes ¥ thvyoy
an avrog kai epof3ovro avrdy *.
ን

መሓ

[ey

=
2
+ Eth. adds Kai geeiyos 6 Kpuys €yéywmre rpéfBara ToእAd, kai éxovuilgn ai rpdBaroy uuxpsy
€yéyero Kpubs dvri abroy kal €yévero ipXey kai €yévero 1lyoveyos €keiyvay Ty Tbofgdrey.
“This
may have been lost through hint.
Eth,
= cai ies ébolgilnay kai $@vyoy dm’ aro.
uA

\

ነ

ላ

ን

=

ኣ

Ly

[4

AN

ላ

Ly

2

ሩ

[A

»

#

መ

#

i

they insert Hhi 9 reads iዋሣi Tተሐንጺi ።# 0ቢድi Oiዋሣi 85/0 read HPA; (E48)
£0: ዝኩ ቤ1፡
= ። omits.
= 9 reads ታሕhትi
= m reads Yi
=e.
Other MSS. TAOAI
» ss reads Whi.
7 uy omit.
5 ehr read AA: fFomits.
5 au. a omits. B reads AAW
07 omits.
gu, eh omit.
=m. wu omits.
#, 8 read Hh;
5 Fm prefix ©.
xm reads AAብOAY:
። Aባ73i
# omits.
5 Corrupt (7) for PIA:
9 reads hiጻi
u ie; and omits next five words.

5 w omits next two words.
ae omits.

5m.

greads AAP

5 Fy. Other MSS. except m, 4 AAT):

/3 AARP

m, g read A720;

5 is trans.

after PRY.
5 g reads iN}; (sic) and reads next two words in nom. s# omits
next two words.
i
Omi
5 g prefixes ©.
5 a. B reads AAA
“NOX read NO:
u reads PስምOpws and omits next two words.
Sg, abcdgeFstL

mgt, Bnoxab read DAE

ዝኩ ጸባ70፡
5g, DcdI0xab.
au ©.
5 0 reads ወሰበ Cጺኩ፤

My Teads ALLE;
51 au omits. dg prefixes ©.
FBvRnob. # reads YRA; ascde/xa pትYAAA;

1 # reads TዋYAI
9 በመዋዕሲሆመ፥
57 # reads ገብ;

RSC

or 3.

5 9 reads £0;

mgh aeFhsiin read
ig omits) APP
።“ ከመ;
sa. B reads AHR: R70;
= wu prefixes ©.
5m,
#u omits together with next word.

»gm,ayg/ hrs Iox,ay. cenyy read በበመራ". ያ0መራOtሆP
a omits together with next six words.
6 5 reads ‘hE:
5 £.

So also g but trans. after RHAብY;

miu, 8 read

9 reads AYስCትY'; here and trans. RYምCY: wrongly as already stated.

5 Here 9 adds as observed in preceding note.

0 mg,B.

2 reads DAXብOY:

{1 PRXN0YS u omits.
Si w omits next three words.
529. m reads ANA
/ ዝኩ
8 ጻእኳቲ
5 c reads Pምስጥpmwi
go Rመስጥpሙi
wu omits next
three words.
5s treads ANAY'E:
5s au.
omits. Breads CK!
o adds ስክ:
5 wu reads ©.
7 a, eh read JE3g;
cs ay read Ala;
5 g reads
ወማሣፈደ፤ ዚጸሆሙ፡
70 9 reads DEP's
ua, n read JE
and # omits next
seven words.
nn au. # omits. B reads 001;
75 m omits.
breads
ድምሥዎመ፡
9 ይመሥመጥ".
7% a# omits next [Our words.
75 መ reads Nምጽራኝ፤

“Fmg
7 m9, oy read ARDPI # omits next two words.
5 9 reads JPN
read ASብNYi
7 9 reads PACA:
"8. Other MSS. 70:
= 4 reads Ai
Aዒ

178

መጽሐፈ፡

ህኖ

LXXXIX, 57-62.

ችትባልእዑ፡። ኣም “ሹሎመሙ፡፡ “ጸራዊት፡ ገዳም።፣
58. ወ።ውኣቱ፡ ጸርመመ፡ *“ኣንዘ፡ ይሬx፣፣
ወትፈሥመሕ፤ ጻስመ፤ “ተባልዑ፡ ወተውሕጡ፡።
ወተሀዴዱ፡ ወጋደነሙ፡ ውስት፤ “ጻደ፤
ሎሙ
ጸራዩት፡ ለሰመብልዕ።
59. ወጸውዐ፣ ;° ኖሳዩያኔ'" ወ“ገደፎሙ፡ ሎሙ
ሲዝኩ፡።

ጸባ70;።

B፩"ጻምኔክሙ፡

ከመ፡

ይዴርዐድዎሙ፡

ጻምዴይኣዜ፡።

ወይቤ፡

ይርበይዎሙ፡"

ለ“ኖላዩያን፤;"

ለጸባ7ዕ፡

2በፉ።

60. ወ“ጸሟጃጥቶወክካመ፡"፡ በጐልቀቅ።" ወኣነኘረካመ

ወቪኪያሆመ“፥

ጸሣኮሱ፡።

ወ“መጠወ፡።

ሎመ፡።

ዝኩ:

ወሐቱሲ፡።

ወመጠኔ፡

ዘዴትገበር፡

ያሕኮሎመሙ፡።

1 29.

በፇፆሎት፡።

በርኣስመ፡

Other MSS. +0A0;

ጸሐፍ

ዙሉ“

read ሰብዐ

ዘዴችጋኾኮል፤
61.

ያሐ”

ሲሰሄ፱“ኖሳቁ።

2 9 reads ሹሎ፡ ጸናብስት፣ ወ.

("ዓት; ። 9). / ሰብጸ፤

። ፮.

ይነ

ጳምኔሆመሙ፡።”
ወ።“ለካልእኣ፤።

ኖሎት፡። ፈፉበ፡ ኣሱ፡። ጸባ0፡
ጸዘዝክዎሙ።
62. D“ዙሉ፡፡

ሚመጠ"

ሕጕሲ፡”

5s 2 omits.
e omits.
5 omits.
7 9 reads Tp:
w omits next seven words.

1 9. 2 reads TE; rs

ዘጻሌዝዘክሙ፣፡

ጸባኘ?0 ።።

ጸውዐ ወዴቤት፡ *ሰቡ፡ ወርጺ፡። ሹሉ” ዘ“ዴገብፉ፡”
ሓላስመ፡;። ያሐሕቱሱ፡። ኣምውስቴተመሙመ፡።” ፈፎፉደ፡ ኣምዘ፡።
ጽጋበ።

ወለእጸማደሙ፡፣፤

ወ“ዙሎ፡’

በትጻዛዝዩ፡።

ጸሐፍ

ደቤሆሙ፡።፡

። omits መ“

520.
መ» 3 YAP; ©.
au omits.
2 reads titi Ai,
3-0).
mg

ዕዕ ጽሰብጸ፣

'0 a, 5.

B-B read ያላው

All other MSS. omit Nea and read only JE

1 he

whole clause is a rendering of gpptey aiirois gxetva Ta rpdfgara. Cf. Job XVi. 12.
next {Our words.
5 Fg, m,B read AAA
15 m omits.
«pba

aw omits
Pmngu

omit.

dq ABE.

7 0058.

5 au, yD. wu omits,
gm read CARP

B adds Ay;
5 ያF/u,L
at Omits next SiX Words.
5 20,18.

8-8 read PAው ያ;
u reads RCA

9 reads በጐልቂ፣፡
1 B-JFIoxD.

m reads has

», 3 በሦእቁ።
#9 read RሕኾAi

/ paw;

m reads ለኣኩ፥ ያሸሹሎ፡ 5-5፣። ጻልካተ፡
ጸባ70፡ ወሰዙሎሙ፡
25 g reads WN

'5 g reads B.

5 F reads ABP

0 m reads Akh;
ms 6/I0x5 A

SF omits,

5 2. / reads AHh

» ኣልካቱ፡ ፡ ዝኩ፡ ። ጻሉንገ፡
=
read
5 r0u. mt 8B ADP;
5 g reads AHh

ወርዚኩ፡
3 g trans. after HRT.
m Im, 4 read [ብ
31 i omits next three
words.
5 ነ reads fi
a ኣልኩ
5 m reads hi
¢ Aa;
= gu, Bro.
£, read tኃLኮሱ፡ mos ያሣኮሱ፡
/ የኮ
5 n reads APs
wu omits.

5 0b read ©.
7 8. a9 read ሹሉ፤ ጽጋብ፡
ያ ሎሙ ጽጋበ፡
iB: # reads
ወሣኮል፤ ።/ ወሐቱል፤
ያ ሕጕሱ፡ ዘይትሐሕኾኮል፡ ወ. ። omits.
5 መ read በኖN’ቱ፤
a omits.
# የገኮሱ፡

o mw reads H. 92, dq omit next three words.
12. m reads hr
/ 5 የ(ዕrያ) ሕኮልዎሙ፡
5 2 repeats three preceding words and # omits

next three words.
w omits.

35 0.

m adds YAH:

reads ያሣኮሎመ፡
©.

4 am,

ያዞ 8-ሪ ዩ(orያIJኮሱ፡
m reads fi

ወ ፀፆሠ. ድተeads ሐሉ
ሐኮሰ፥
8 ሐሕቱሎሙመ፡
fh B-»ay ABE. ay ለለB.
"9 omits.

3B OWN

SFmu,0,

a» ያሕቱኮሲ፡
omits,

0g reads BB.

LXXXIX,. 63-61.
63.

ወ’በጐልፉቀ፡፡።

መጽሐፉ:
ጸንብብ፡

ቐቅፎማዩ።

ዛሄኛ፡

ወ’ሚመጠነ፥

ሰጋኾል፡

ከመ፡።

ይድኩን፡

ሊት

ዝንቱ"

ፃብሮመ፡

ለኖሳዩያንኝ፡።

ከመ፡

ጻመጥኖመሙ፡።

ስምዐ;

179
የኃኮሱ።

ወሚመጠ፤፡፡

ፈቤሆመ፡

“ከመ፤

ወጻርጸዶ፡

ድይሣጥዉ፡፣

ጸኣምር።

ዘ“ይገብፉኗፉ፤

ሰኣኳመ፤

ሹሉ

ይነብፉኗ፤”

በትኣዛሽና፡ ዘጸዘሽnዎሙ ወመ: ጸልቦ።፣
64. ወጺሇያጻምፉ፡። ወጸፓርኣየዮ መሙ"
ወረዚትዝልፎመሙ፡ ጸሳ፡ ጸሕፍ፤ ሹሉ ሕጕሰ፡;” ኖሳዊያን፤። በኙዜሆ፡። ሰሰ ጀጀወጸዕር፣ን፡ “ሺሉ፡;
ኘገቤዩ።።

65. ወርኩ

ዴቅትሱ፡።

ወ።የሕቱሱ፡

ጸናብስት።

“ኣስክ፡ ሶበ; ኣልኩ
ብዙኘ፡።” ኣምትጻዛቫክመ፡”

66. ወበልዑ፡፥

ወውወጡ፡፡

ወጸገንምርት፡። ወሕሐራዊያ፡። ገዳም፤ በልዑ
ወ።“ከረይዎ፤ ሲ“ዝኩ፡። ቤት'።

ትክርዩ፡።

ውጻቲቱ፡

ኖሳዊያን፡። ዶርዕዩ፡። በ፣ዜሆ፡። ወጸጋ

ቤት።።

ወጋደጊ፡

ዝኩ”

መብዝሕተመሙመ፡፥
ምስሴሆመ፡

ጸባኘዐ;

ውስት

ወጸውዐፀይያዎ፤

ሰ“ዝኩ፡። ማሣፈደ፡

67. ወሕዘንኩ፡ ብዙኘ፡” ጥፃ፣ በጻንት፤ ማሣፈደ፡።

ዘጸባኘዕ፡።

ወ።ጻምኔሆሙ፡።“

ኣደ

ለዝኩ ። ጸባኘዕ;፡ ጸናብስኝ፡

ዚኻህልኩ፡

ጻስመ፤"

ርጳየዮተመ፡

ለኣልኩ፡”

: 2 omits.
2 aim. 7m, 8 read በ(AYቅ
52. Other MSS. prefix 0.
« mw omits.
ያ
መ reads ያሕቱሲ፣
ያ ዴኘንኾሱ፡
።, 5 የሕኾሱ፡፥
፣ ዴትጋጕኮሴ፡
BcefFanpx add CAA;
5 g reads my:
unm.
7 Fu.
m reads
ድፌገዉ፤ ወዶሣጥዉ፡
9 ይሜጥንዎመ፥
6-፣ ይሟሜጥውዎመ፥
5 m omits,
2 reads A followed by an erasure. ss omits.
se omits.

un 2gw.

read PAY;

my, 8 read ስምዓ:

m adds LARPs

u omits next two words.

m reads ATP

DAP;

፣ሃ ዴገጃጠውዎሙ፡
1" Z reads Hh
ወስኝ;
5a
8

35 Fmended

8 Nm’

fron ATs

edition of 1893 has since been accepted by Beer and Flemming.
15 wu reads 10;
5 g reads HAH: AH.
# omits.

ኣመ:
መ ጸመi ጸከi
።u ጸው
g ጺም
a omits.
ወጸርኣጳዮ

መያ,

ኖባውያን፤

x adds ዴርጸዩ

9,8 ሐሕኮሎሙ፡

5 au, B-Bcipx.
2.

HEA:

ss omits.

ሲ.

w omits,

31 am.

78 reads AN

= £9. Other MSS. ወRSናPCYI

SmI.

u# ውAE;

# reads WYE:

5 9 reads EE:

“7m reads Thረti

9 ትዝኻርና፡

5» ከረይደኩ፡

e omits next five words through hmt.
22 prefixes ©.

m,8 read

o8 omit WN;

BB read PAD”.
25 m, a7 read C3;
m omits.
5 fFreads YY; uwomits.
o F/B. 9 prefixes 0. m reads Ahi

au omits. B reads AAAS
read PAE:

1 aim.

bcipx read በ0".

Other M55. except 08 trans.

A wu reads At;
5» Fgh
mu omit.
("RE af). a CAE
7» በLዜሆ
5 F9. m reads ብW»i /u, 8 ብH»H;
HAaHha;

# m reads ACRE;
I I BO eae

ጸልእቦ፡
5 BB
mths read DRA
» F reads PRYNYCAFi u omits.
7 reads

ቃድ reads ሐቶቱሰ፡

m omits next nine words.

£9.

This cemendation made first in my

55

3 AY:

omits next nine words.

5 f/ omits.
45 e omits.

# £.

5 at

= a, Breads ራውያ:
SF

EI

n mg read AN;

/H.

3 mg

/ read HARON;

Other MSS. read aki

180

መጽሐፈ፡

ጸባኘ9፡ ለኣመ፡፦ ዴበውጹ፡
“ገበ;
መጠውዎሙ፡፡
ሲኣእኩ፡፡ ጸባንዕ፡
ወ“ሹሎመ፡’

ጀጀኣምኔሆመ“"

ሲ“ካልጹጽ፡ በመጽሐፍ፡

69. ወፈድፉደ፤
ዘይጽሕፍ

ጻፎ፡

ወያዓፃር7፡።

ወያዓፃርፍ፤።

ዘገብኗፉ፡

ወሎ

“"ወመጽሐፍ፡

ወገትማ፡

ሚ"መጠ፤፡

የሐጕል፡'፡ ኣምኔሆመ፡

ዝኩ”

ደዴጽሕፍ፡

ዝኩ ቤት።
68. ወ።ኖላቹዊያን፡። ወጸማዶሙ፡
ለሰዙሉ፡፡ “ጸራዊተ፡ ገዳም፡፣ ከመ፡“። ይብልዕዎሙ፡
በጐልፉ፡።

ይጸሐፍ”

በኣጻንት፡

ክጀ“ይቁትል፡”
ጸባ70።

70.

ጀሥዘዴትሕጕል፡

ወያርዚ፤

ሹሎ፡።”
ኣግዚጸ፡

72. ወጻምኔሆ፡

Bጀ፡

[ሰል

ኣምኔሆሙ፡

በመጽሐፍ።|"

ወጸነ፡

ጸጋዝኩ፡”

ኣብኪ፡

ወክመዝ፡

በራኣይ፡’

ርጺኻዎ፤

ለዝኩ

ዝኩ”

ኖሳዩያን።

“በዙሱ፡

ዕለት’

ኣም

ጸባ70፡

ይትሟጠው፡።

ወ“የሕሐጕል፡”

ኪያሁ"

ዘጻጸጻትተ፡። ፮፮፡ ኣምጌሆመ፡፥

ተኘበ፡;። በቅድመ፡

ወጸንበራ።።

LXXXIX. 67=72.

በጊዜሆሁ፡"

ጻምሥርዓተመ፡

ወ።ጸዐፀውዩ”

ዛኛካ፡

መጽሐሕፈ፡”

ለኣግዚጸ፡

ጸባ70;

ሹሉ

ወዙሎ፡"

ዘመጠጪ፡።

ለሐቱል።

(RE

ወነመጸ፡

መጽሐፈ፡

ኣምኣዲ፡።

“ወጸንበባ፡

ኣንዘ፡ ዴርዕዩ፡።

ኖሎት፡።

ሂወጀ።ሰዓ1፡

ርዚኩ፥

ወናሆ፣ ሂ“ጻምዝኩ፡” ጸባፃ0;'" ገብዙ፡" “ወመጽጹጽ፡ ወቦጽ፡" ወጽኘንዘ፡ “ኣን; የጋንዷ፡“ ዙሉ”

!' a8, B-n.

ZF reads ሰኣሰ፡

። ኣስ

‘22,8.

m reads AYE:

9! Ah:

ሣ ውስች፡ ውኣፒ፡
Sau.
# reads Pri
3 PAY
u omits next word.
‘me bcéeFBRnxa.
tad read Dm.
£9 read paw;
so soy save that
they omit ©. ## omits next two words.
° 9 reads Aዝh 0 ሰጻልካቱ
5 2 Drefixes ©. fu, n read A and # trans. fs after 'I8i
au.
# reads ASብNስት;

8B ጸራዊ

s 2, n omit.

9g.

nag, B~age.

F reads ALU:

aew omit.

Fg.
Other MSS. read 0A
9, ዕያ፣ዛoxaB read ይትጠዉ፡
ወበልፉ

ይዴሟጥው፡

8 as ወሰ

miu, Bread ti
g reads በ0L".

9 ው

in # omits.

# omits next four words.

8 mf acgtLt
#Z reads ዴት
‘sy ይችትሜጠውዎመሙመ፡ (ጠውያዎ፤ #). መያ add
1 Better emend into 0.

5 wu. So already

Beer conjectured: ABoc. und Pseug. ii. 205 note.

# reads LRA:

ዴዶጽሕፍ፡

5 ሐል:

words,

15 #0

7 9 adds £ጽhgEi

ድ reads ያሕሉ
£ reads SSOt:
from ver. 61.

5 a,

gu omit.
wu omits.

read HRATE:

nya ያሕል

prefixes ©.

Other MISS.

a omits next three

™ m reads ቅት!

” 9, g-agcdef.

» ያሕኾል፡ ሃ።, ዕረ
ያሕጕኾል፡
= » adds ጸብል፡
= 5 8-5/0.
mi Aውti
9,105 RROti x Roti «omits. 8 adds ብዙ; TE:
= g/u. # omits. m,@read AAW
=“ omits.
8g
gu omit.

m, 8B read AA

n D0C7;
after PC".

read (hr

8 reads ያላው

us omits.

5 ድ reads ጽሐፈ:

7 mp

B~u

# reads DiC;

5 m trans. before D3CTi
n reads OC;
= 9 reads WN
0 9 reads tN; መጸሕፍት
JYብብi

5 m, fa read Hono:

5 Hn

። trans. Yi0: after R70;

mL

B በጻዷi
place).

and trans.
EH

u omits.
9 reads AB.

wu omits.
5 ድ,B8. a rad ጸንበበ፡ ወሕሐትመ፣ ወጸንበረ፡ (= ጸንበበ፡ iኳ tኮid
5 g reads C4 Fo CAE:
” 9, a trans. before AH:
mi write
in full CY: AY:
። adds Oi.
a5 au.
wu omits.
3 reads AAA
0 8. 2 reads Tብትri m2! TብAi ።# omits.
us,8.
mot read RA: A:

u መጦጽሉ፡

5 9 reads ድን

Se prefixes ©.

LXXXIX, 72 TAC.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛክ፡

181

ዘወፎቁ፡ ኣምውኣቱ፡ ቤነ፡፥ ወሕራዊያ።፡ ገዳም፡ ከእአጻዎመ።“፡ ወጺካህሱ።፡፣
73. ወጸ
ኻካዕበ፡ ድሕንዷ፡ ከመ፡ ቁዳሚ፡ ወጸንሠመኣዎ፡ ሲሰውኣቱ፡ ማሣግፈፎ፡ ወዴሰመይ፡። “ማሣፈ.ፎ፡
ንዊሣ። ወጸንዘ፡ ካዕበ፡ ኣንዘ፡ ሮነገብፉ፡፡ ቅፎመ፡ ማሣግፈፎ፡ ማኣደ፡፡ ወ“ዙሱ፡ ሣብስት፡
ዘዴቤሆ፡። ርኩስ’ ወጺኮነ፣ ንዷሐሕ።
74. ወ“ዷበ፡ ሹዙሱ፥ ኣሱ" ጸባ7ዕ፣ ጽሱሳን፡
ጸዕይደንቲሆመ፡

ወጺይሬኣዩ፡

ወኖሎተሙ“፤፡

“ከማሆሁ፡

ወ“ይሟጥውዎመሙመ፡

ሰኖሎተሙ።“ሃ፡።

ሰሐሕቱል፡ “ፈ.ፎፉደ፡ ወበጻገሪሆመ፡'፡ ኬፎዎመሙመ፡ ሲሰጸባፃ0፡ ወበልዕዎሙ።
ጸባ70፡ ጸርመመ፤ ኣስከኔ;" ተዘርዘፉ፡ *“ሹሱ፡ ጸባኘዕ፡;" ገዳመ፤ ወትይደመፉፍ፡
ወጺ“የድኝንዎመ፡”"

ኣምልደ፤

ወጸርጸየዩ፡ ወጸንበበ፡ በኘበ;።
በኣንቲጸሆመሙመ፡።

ኣንዘ፡“

ጸራዊት።

ኣኘዚጸ፣
ሇያርጳዩ፡።

76. ወ“:

ዘዴጽሕፍ፡

75. AHR:
ምስሌሆሙ ።

መጽሕሐፈ፤

ጸዕረ፣

ጸባፃ0;” ወ“ስተበፉያ፡።

በኣንቲጸሆሙ፡

ወዴስኣሎ;።

ሹሎ;።

ወ“ይሰምዕ፡”

በቸቅፎሆ፤።

ግብረ፡

ኖሎት”

ደበ፡ ሰ
ኖሳዩያን።።
77. ወነሟይ፡ ጸንበረ፡ ኪያሆሁ፥ ኘቤሆ፡።” መጽሐፈ፡ ወወፅ9ጸ።።
Xር. ወርዚኩ፥ ኣስከ፡ ዘመን፡ ዘክመዝ፡። ዶርዕዩ፡። ተጸወሂ። ተኖላዩያን;። ወ“ፈጸመሙ፡።”
1 0

Other MSS. ስራው;

1 DRY;

w omits.

mt, BX read AE;

2 m prefixes ©.

፡ 9 ads ከመ፤ ቀዳሚ
ITY:

5 m reads DU

5 Fu.

u omits next seven words.

9, % read ማ4ፈድ፡ Iዋኝ
° mtf,B.

#2 reads IAC:

ፃ ይብr፡ = omits.
7 mE B. 2g read MAE:
smh B-abcdge(spyoxይ.
g, ab 950 xB read tN; 4ብስ1፡ ዘደ". ። ሹሱ፡ ዘውስቱቱ፡ ግብስት፡ ረ ሹሱ፡ ሣብስ1፡ ዘ".
5 mu, B read Ch:
0 ይB- ድ reaባs ዷበ፡ ዙሱ፤፥ ወኣሰ፥
ዷበ፡ ሹሱ፡ ኣሰ፡ 9, ፣ #0;
ti
= omits.
n au, wy. B~nuy read Lt. #,n omit.
15 b reads hy;
gh:
For next two words # reads Pra
5 a aI
BIRNRO0UY. Bcelx

read L.

e adds hy;

# wu reads ©.

® # reads ስከ;

a reads THCHE:
7 ፀሣ read ሹሉ; (ሹሱ፡ ።) ጸባ70፡ ገዳም
¥ in text, and # over erasure in the text ft; PAE; A730;
over the line Rr

4 ያፎኘንኖመሙመ፡

PAI:

u omits next three words.

0 a. B reads Whi

ug.

9,5 ሓስ:

Ts

5 b adds in margin,
es adds in another hand
15 7m, 8 read EY.

m/w, 8 read (+A!) Rብያt: 30;

(mgr omit).
J; ቢያ ለ.
= mw omits next two words.
5 m reads
ስተበፉዕ፡ ።።። ጸስተብፉቍያ፤ Here ድ መ aጻd በኣንቲጸሁ፡ ("ሆሙመ፡ ) ወይስጻሉ፡ ("ሱ፡ )
AIH: ስተብቁያ ("05 m)—a corrupt dittography (Y.
#&,8. mtu read ወይስat:
gf ወይዴስaልዎi
u omits next eight words.
5 Fm. Other MSS. omit. m adds
ወዴስኣጻስ፡
25 a reads ©.
7 9 reads CARP:
5 Fhn omit,
5 m0.
iB read Pts
» mnt £9 read ይሰማ): 8 ሰም0;
ex read በቅድ;
5 a. 8 reads PላውY:
53 te omits. #, 8 trans. before ኪያሁ:
£ adds ውቲ:
# 9 reads OKs
u omits. 8h reads DOA:
ከመዝ: 9,5 hመዝ:
፣ hoi HyH:i a omits.

By.

m omits.

5 fF. mf abcdeftino read han
™ #,f/5/0,a read £COE
"8,

9 reads wሰi Oi, ።# Aስh; ሠሱስ: ©, £» Aoi.

We should read gig.

™a-u,

u reads Poti

8 PAY

All are corrupt.
9 reads A;

189

መጽሐፈ:

ዛና:

XC. 1-6,

ሎሙ በበ፲ዜሆመሙመ፡ “ከመ፡ ቁዳማዊ.ያን፡፡ ወ“በዕዳን፡፣ ተመጠውዎመሙመ፡፡ ውስት፤ ጳደዊሆሙ፡
ከመ፡ ድርዐዴዎመ፡፥ በበሂዜሆሙ፡’ ዙሱ፡፡ ኖሳዩ። በፉዜሆ።
2. ወጻምዝ፤ ርጺዀኩ፡
በ“ራኣይዩ፡፡ ሹሱ፡” ጸዕዋፈ፡ ሰማይ፡ መጽጹ፡" ጸንስርት፡ ወ“ጸውስገ፡። “ወሆባይ፡ ወቋንት፡
ወጸንስርት፡። ይመርሕዎመሙመ፡። ሰ“ዙሎመሙ፡። ጸዕዋፍ፡ ወጸጋዘ፡፥፡ ዶብልዕዎሙ፣
ሲ“ዝኩ፡""
ጸባ7ዕ0፡ ወዴይክከርዩ፡ ጸዕዶንቲሆመ።፡ ወ“ዴበልአዕዎመ፡። ሲ“ሥመጋሆሙ።
5. ወጸባኝ0; ጸርኙ፡
ኣስመ፡ ዴዶትበልፁ፡።” ሥጋሆሙ” ኣምኔ ጸዕዋፍ፡ ወ“ ነጸርኩ፡። ወጸዘውየውኩ፡፥ በንዋምዩ
ደበ: ውኣቱ፡። ኖሳባዩ፤ ዘዴርዕዮመ፡ ሰጸባኘዕ።
4. ወ።ርጺክ፡፥ ልኣስከ፡ ትችበልዐ፥ ዝኩ፡።
ጸባ70፡

ኣም።ጸካልብኝ፡“

ወ“ኣም“ጸንስርት፥

ፃመሙራ፡

ወጺ።“ማኣጻሰ፡=

ወጺ“ሥርወ፣”

ወ።“ጸዕፀምቲሆሙሰ፡።”

ወድቁ”

ዷበ፡

ምድፎር፡

ዘመን; ኣስከ፡;። ዶሬዕዩ፥። ጀወኛ፡" ወፈጸመ

መኝስጻት፡“

ተወልዱ፣

ጻምዝኩ፡”

ወ“ኣም።ሣሆበይዴ፤

ሓኣስከ፡

ጸባኘዕት፡“"

ትመጠዎመs

»ትመጥዎመs

9 Tመnai

5/5 B-L

7 a. B reads ላው];

s

ሎመ፡፥

ጸባኘ7ዕ።

ጸዓዳ፡።

5. ወርጺኩ

mi read Ww PALEY:
2 8. a reads በ0£:

“ጸዕዴንቲሆመሙ፡

u omits. B-BF5
‘wu, 8. £# read

su omits rest of verse.

m, B read በ01”.

ኣስከ

6. Diዋ;s፣

ወጸንዘዙ፡

ወዙሱ፡

ሥጋ;

ጸዕፀምቲሆሙ፡።

ወ "፮“ፉዜያት።

ቋድ ads ለዙሱ፡

90

ወጺ“ጋደ;።

በሕቲቱ።።

ወንጻሱ፡።

በበሂዜሆመሙ፡።

1 wu omits. dg reads WN;
2:20.
ead ቁዳምያኽ፤ አሃ፣xሪ ቀዳማውያን
Z (1) read Zh".

ቁመ፡።

m8,

ያ ዙስ

2 am,

/ ሹሎመ፡

m, Bread AE:

0 go, 950Xyb read WN; # omits.
1 wu trans. before ROP:
= m reads CY
ፀ ዐየውሳሰት፥
መሃ። aባ4ዛ ወጸንስርት፡
5 au omits.
# m reads Lo” DF" 0%”
ወጸን" ወ. ። ወሆ" ወቋ" ይመ".
9 reads ሹሱ፤ ። ሹሉ
"ያ
9/8 read AW
au omits.
evidence.

i au, bcgioxb.
1 retain the indicative here owing to the textual
aéf (2?) & Ina read MCE
u omits with next two words.
Rigs

£, eho read ብልዎ
omit.
2 reads A730;
ርጺኩ፡

ያ 3 ጸራሣኩ፡

9,cx ዴበA0ዎ;
/ ay 4/78
/n a £ብA0;
= au. u, B read YAOI
= F0u.

uD.

5 m adds #፡

5 2 omits.

5 am.

(sic) and trans. after AN”. 8 reads AA:
5 £. Other MSS. RA:
omit.
5 Fu, apceBiRlnoxae. # reads DET; wg, 47 DEI

EE
m reads

m reads ANN:

IT
” m reads

ማ0ስ፡
”
reads Ci
gt Dcge/htoxb., mga, arInovw,a read Pw;
5 ድመይሪ.
ፀuሣ read በበሕቲትመ፡
፩-* በሕቲተመሙመ፡
5 9 reads ROBY
mop
omit.
i u, bcgFInox,ay omit,
5 rm
9 reads ROBE
u omits.
8reads ROLF
8 #. mgiu, Bread Dé;
5 m adds Nh
a-m.,
m reads AN;
8 omits.
5.
moh 8 read COR
wu omits.
0 8 add ዎላቐያን፡ ("ውያ 8).
= 9 reads ኣስከ፡ ዜያቲሆሙ፡
“
reads ሰመኒች፡
ፀ ሰመንቱ
ሃ ሰመን
ንጽሰን፤ ያ ገንዑሳትስ፡

5 9
eu omits.

Sa. aeBpRnpvw read Yዙሰት፡ ዕcx YA};
gi/0yay
ሣያ/18. መ reads ማሐሰዓነ፣
ያ መሓስኣት፡
። ማጋስኳኣት፡

m, Bread AAAI
Tau,

w omits.

uw omits.
8B reads AY£D

“gL

m reads 030i

9,8 B70;

XC I:

መጽጠፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

189

ይካመቲቱ። ወዴርጸዩ፡ ወይጽርኘ፡ ኘበ፡ ጻባኘ0።
7. ወጸስርጎግዎመሙ፡። “ወጺያጽምጵ፡
ኔገሮሙ። ጸላሳ፡“ ፈፎፋፉደ፡ ትጻመመ፡።’ ወተጺጸሰሰ፡ ጸዐዶንቲሆመ፡፥ ፈድፉደ፤ ተወኘንዩሱ።፣
8. ወርጺኩ፥ በራጻዶዴ። ቋዓት'፣"› ከመ፤ ሰረፉ፡። ፈፉበ፣ ጻልካቱ፡። መኘሣስኣጻ፡። ወጸኘገዝዎ፡
“ለጽሕዱ፥ ኣምዝሁኩ፡። መኝስኣ፤፡ ወቁቀጥቁጥዎመ፡ ለጸባኘዕ፡ ወበልዐዎሙ።
9. ወርጽኩ፡
ኣስከ፡ ወፀጸ፡ ሎመ፡"። ጸቅርን፡ ለዝኩ መጋስኣ፡ ወቋንት፡ ያወ.ድፎቅዎመሙ፡ ለ“ጸቅርንቲሆሙ፡
ወርጺኩ፡፥ ሓጻስከ።። በቁሲ፤፣ ፩"ቁርን፣ ዓቢይ” ሲጀ።ጻምኔ፤ ዝኩ” ጸዘባፃ0፡ ወተክከሥመች፡።

ጸዐዕይንቲሆሙ።።

10. ወርጳዩ፡

ቦሙ“ሪ።

|[(ወተፈትሐ፣

ሎሙ” ሰጸባኘ0፡ ወደቤሳት፡ ርጻይዎ፤ ወሮዷ፤
ዙሴ፡፥ ኣልኩ፥ ጸንስርተ፡” ወጸውስት፡ ወቋዓት፥፡
ሰጸባኘ0፡

“ወይዴሰርፉ፡፥ ደቤሆሙ፡፡

ጸዕዴንፒቲሆመሙመ፡|= ወ።ጸርኘ፣፣

“ሹሎመ፡፥ ኘቤሆሁ።።
11. ወ“ ምስለዝ፡
ወሆባይ፡። ጻስክ፡ ይኣዜ፡። ይመስጥዎመሙ፡

ወ“ ዴበልዕዎመሙ፡ ። ወጸባፃዕ0*ሰ;

ያረምመሙ፡።

ወ“ደቤሳት፡።

1 @6FBRnow trans.
s m. Possibly we should read PNCሣps
Forg,spPn
point to the imperfect. All other MSS. are corrupt.
The corrupt readings arose
probably through the wrong insertion of &. before NCAP; or else through the
corruption of A in RNC4paw; into A.
Thus we have a change of verb in #

REACYP

and 05 RACግP

and yet another change of verb in / RሰምOpae

or a dropping of the corrupt negative in 9 RCAps
a omits with preceding ©.
In B the corruption has advanced further and introduced R20; save in the case of

08 which we have already noticed.

Thus 8-5 no read R70; (R700; a) ACP

የም።ፍ ጸበፃ0; ጺ(ያ። ዕመi) ይጺጸርግዎመሙ፡
‘af.
g,n read DAA
IT.
abc af iIRIO0XS DAB
HYICP
«» OጺያፀApm Hi]".
+ m reads
Ali
wu omits.,
su omits next four words,
7? 9, 8-8 read TAA
sm.

7 reads JW!
corruption.

/ 8-5n0,ay9 JA:
1 an omit.

bux ጋላ

o DAI

io ain, BH. m, BH read ቁ3Yi

are repeated by # in ver. 11.

See the repetition in note 31.

mg tu read Nee;

uf.

words.

#4

5
omit.
#g,a omit.
reads AAW;

5 ¢ reads Ah;
verse.
ACEH;

en NCS:

reads AዝhiNምHhi

Other MSS. AA

AHhi

There is some

The next twelve words

Fh

B-en,

5 # omits next four

9 ምዱ!

ለዝኩ፡

8 ለሄኣምጻልኩ፡

a. Breads AAAS
7 su omits next two words.
# # reads 0.
9g omits, a trans. before PCY
= #. Other MSS. E.
= a. 8
5 a.

B reads ተከታ;

5 ww omits.

5 Fm

add ወርልጳዩ፡ ጸOይንቲሆሙ፡

Bracketed as a dittography from the preceding

m adds DYፈትhi
For ወY&. 9 reads ፈቲ:
7m, BH.
i» RCD
=
omits.
a, bcx. B-Bcx, y zu trans.
0

am read
trans. after

Rውስት፤
# omits next five words.
5% r omits and repeats instead from ver. 8:
ከመ ሰረፉ፡ ዷበ፡ ኣልኩ፥ መጋኃስኣ፤ ወጸኝዝዎ፡ ኣምጸሐዱ፡ ሲሰዝዙ፡ (50 9 reads in ver. 8)

መኝስ፡ ወቁቀጥቁጥዎመሙ፡ ሰጸባፃዕ፡ ወበልዕዎሙ፥
ዶብልዕ።፡
8-58 / ዳቤላ

54 g reads Pepi

5 Fu, Fil,

= ያ reads ወኣስክ፡
m reads ቤሳ: (sic).

= # reads
9 ደቤ

184

መጽሐፈ:

ዛሄዛኛክ፡

XC TT

ናጸወይዴጦ፡ ወይጻርኙ።፡
12. ወ።ኣልኩ፡፡ ቁዓት፡ ይትጋደሱ፡ ወዶት'ባጸሱ፡፡ ምስሴሆሁ።
ወፈቐቅዲዳ፡፡ “ያኣትቲቱ፡ ቁቀርኖ። ወ“ዚኽህልዎ።
13. ወርኩ ጻስከ፡፡ መጽጽ፥ ኖሳዊያን፤""
ወ“ጸንስርት፡

ወዝኩ፡። ጸጽውስኝ፡' ወሆባይ፡

ወጺጸር'ኙ፡" ሰቈቋዓት፡'፡ ከመ፡፤ ዶቁቀጥቅጥያዎ፡" *ቁርኖ፡

ሲሰዝኩ፡“" ደቤሳባ፡ ወተባጸሱ፡ ወተቃተሱ፡። ምስሴሁ፡። ወውኣጻቱ፡ ዴዶትባጸስ፡ ምስሴሆሙመ፡
ወጺጻርኝ፡ ከመ፡ ትምጻኳ፡” ረድሌቱ።።
14. ወ“ርዚኩ፥ ኣስከ; መጽጸ፤ ዝኩ፥ ብጻሲ፡፡
ዘጻሕፈ፡ ጸስማቲሆመ፡ ሰኖሎት፣ ወ“ያዐር7፡። ቅ.ድሁ፡፡ ሰጻንዚጸ፡ ባዕ; ወ“ውኣቱ፡፡
ረፎፀይ፡።

ወጸድጋኖ;።

ወጸርጸየ፣

ሺሎ”

መራደ፡”

ሰ“ረ.ፎሌቲቱ፤

ሰዝኩ፡።”

ደቤሳባ።

15.

ወ።ርጺኩ፡ ኣስከ መጽጸ፡።” ንቤሆመሙመ፡።” ኣፇግዚጸ፡። ጸበፃ0;። በመዓት፡ ወጻሰ፡ ርጻይያዎ፡
ዙሎመ፡ ነፍዷ፤ ወወ.ፎቁ፡ ሹሎመ፡፡ ውስተ፣ ጽሳሉት፡። “ልምቅድመ፡ ገጹ።፡፣
16. ሎሙ”
ጸንስርት፡ ወዓውስት። “ወቋዓት፡ ወሆባዶ፡። ትጋብጹጽ፡ ወ“መጽጹጽ፡“" ምስሌሆሙ ሹሱ፡፣
ጸባኝዐ፡;። ገዳም፡ ወ“መጽዙ፡። “ሹሎመ፡፥ ሣቡረ፡ ወተራፎጵ፡" ከመ፡ ዴቁጥቅጥያዎ፡" ለዝኩ
ቀር ዶደቤሳ።
17. ወርጺኻዎ። *“ሲዝኩ፡ ብኣጻሲ፡። ዘ“ይጽሕፍ፤፡ መጽሐፈ በቃሰ፡
ኣግዚኣኳ፡። ኣስከ፡“ ፈትሖ፡። “ሰውኣቱ፡ መጽሐሕፈ፡። ሐሕጕል፡ ዘጸሕጕኮቡሱ። ሓጻልኩ፡”

+ w omits.
2 2 omits.
3 ድ ተጻባs ይትነድጵ፥ = ዴትቃተሱ፡ ወዴትጋ".
‘F9t m,8 read YAN
un omit.
? ድ rads ምስሌሆመ፡፥
።“# ምስሴሆን፡
ና a adds Jቤሆwi
፣ m reads A 26; 9 A" PCF #AYYPI
omits.
se. m,B read CAMP
9/ CAMP; # omits.
n Z omits.
15 a.
mw omits.
B reads DANY;

# dy read #34:
ሰቁር፤፡ ሰዝኩ፡
መ) 8-5 ዳቤሳ፡

u omits.

10 a.

» u reads ATi

B-ድ read ዎሳባውያኝኽ፤
3 m reads DACA;

"gw.

፳ ኖሎት
# omits.

mt Dcds/0ay read

ያ ሰቁርኒ፡ ሰዝንቱ፡ ሪ።/» ደ ለቁር፤፡ ዝኩ፥ = ሲሰዝኩ፡ ቀር፣፡
7 aims
5 AI MSS. but # trans. before ወች#". u omits next three words,

5 Z reads OAC
£, 0,8 read f3C3:

a. 8 reads YPRAB
=“ c Drefixesሲ
gt, Binob.
» 0C7
፣ 3c
። A0ረT;
3 aw omits next five words.

5 Al MSS. omit but Z.
= 9 reads pitti
Fmended from DEE;
péራEi = Spy]
Or Gpnua.
The confusion of መ and @ is found a few words later.
See note 29.

Al MSS. omit but #.
where ORR again occurs.
9, 8 add Hh

adds ኣስመ፤

ጸባ70ት፡
5 omits.
5 m trans.
5 9.

7g.

mghB

5 m reads AHN:
5 Z reads DOA: but see ver. 18
og,8. m/read £ቤሆPi gu omit. After JቤVFs

read tN

5 9 reads DOR

au m adds ጸጋሽ

©.

5 Fu, B-0.

mg/ read

5m.
gu, 8 read ጽANE:
# / reads fሱi
።# ©.
Other MSS. APRA
5, a omit next five words through hmt.

u# tN

40 መ reads. DYጋJብRs

5 bg (in margin)nx read ROT:
“ a8 read ድዋጥቅTዎመi

“8.

m gu read DCA;
5 9 reads Hi ብ".
Hh ብኣቤi = Hh
# # reads
ከመ፡
5 £F reads AJHAብሔC:
HAW: ሰA7HLA: Since £ gives a peculiar text
from

this word

to ሐEAi

and

is unsupported

by the rest 1 will give it here.

After AHA” it proceeds: aስመi Yፈትሕi በ20; AHA በውaቱ፡ ሐል:
last note.
## gZu,bdefinx,a. #ooBreadtፈትhi m, acy 8/read ፈትሕ;

See
* For

text of # see note 45. ereads ለውAEi RE

05 Ai

H.

“mbit read aAnቱi

0

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛና

185

“፲ወጀ'ኖሎት፡ ይጋርያን፤ ወ“ጸርጳዩ፡ ከመ፡፡ “ፈፎፉደ፡ ኣምቅፎማሆሙ፡፣ ጸሕኾሱ፡ ቅፎመ
ሓ7ዚጸ፡፡ ጸባኝ0።
18. ወርኩ
ስከ; “መጽጸ፡ Jገቤሆሙ፡፣ “ጻግዚጸ፡ ጸባን:
ወሣሥመይ፤ በጻዷ፡ በትረ፡ መዓቱ ወ“ዘበጣ፡" ሰም.ፎር፡ “ወችሰጠች፡ ም.ድር፡። ወዙሹሎሙ፡
ጸራዊት፣ ወ“ዙሎመ፡። ጸዕዋፈ፡። ሰማይዴ፡ ወደቁ"
ጻም።“ዝኩ፡። ጸባፃዕ፤ ወተሰጥሙ፡
በም.ፎር፤ “ወከደነት፡፥ ደቤሆሙ።፣
19. ወ“ርዲኩ፥ ኣስከ፡;፣ ትውህበ፥ ሰጸባ7ዕ፡ ሰዶፍ፡
ዐቢይ፤ ወወፀጾ፡ ጸባ7ዕ፡ ዲጃበ፡ ሹሰ፡ “ጸራ ገዳም;። ከመ’ ይቅችልዎመ፡ ወዙሎሙ፡
ጸራዊት፣፡ ወ።ጸዕዋፈ፡። ሰማ ይ፡ ነፍጸ፡ ኣምቅ.ፎመ፣ ገጾሙ።
20. ወርዚኩ፡። ኣስከ; መንበር
ተሕንጸ፤ በም.ፎር፡ ሐዋዝ” ወኔበረ፤ ዷቤሁ፡ ኣግዚጸ፡ ጸባ70፡ ወነሥመጸ፣ ተሉ” መጻሕፍተ
ሣጀማቲ፡ ወ“ፈቸውሖን” ለውኣጻተኘ፡። መጻሕፍት፡። በቸ.ፎመ፤ ኣግዚጸ፤ ጸባንዕ።
i
ወ“ጸውዎፆሙ፤።” ኣግጊጻ፡ ሰዝኩ፡” ሰብኳ፤። ሂ።ጸዓ ድው” ቁዳማዊያገ፡። ወጸዘዘ፡ ከመ
.የምጽዶ፡። ቅፎሟሁ፡። ኣምሃኮክብ፡ ቁዳማወ፡፡ ዘደቁ.ፎም፡ ኣም ዝኩ፡። ከዋክብት፤ ኣሰ፡
ጋፍረተመ፡ ከመ፤ ጋፍረ፣ ጸፍራስ፡ |ወሰኮከብ፡ ቀዳማዊ፡ ዘወፀጸ፡ ቅኮ.ፎመ፡|። ወ"ጸምጽኣዎመ፡፣

'/ in full gwCE:

AE:

2 F reads RCA: hi

9 RCA

(sic).

u RCA hoi
° a omits.
/u prefix © and omit @ before CA
See note 6.
2 Z omits next Six words throueh hint.
tu omit.
7 fu trans. m reads
ንቤሆመ፡ ደመጽል፡
5 PB. # reads AAI):
= AHR:
u omits.
3 ae read

መዐ

0 a reads Bln;

words through hmt.

prefix ©.

1» a.

1 7 reads DYwሠwTPYi

15 a.

B reads AA:

4, B omit.

ss omits.

3 a reads ROP;

dg omits next ten
H.

15 eBpigmny

5 m7 (save that ms inserts 0 before £bPa),

dU)= exdእvyey er arovs = pinoy nol, Lhe phrase is from Num. Xvi. 33 where the
XX renders sxdiXuyey ayrous but the Greek translator of Enoch rendered literally
but ungrammatically as above. [he same Greek rendlering of the Hebrew phrase is
found on Ps, ci, 17 skdiXuyrey €mi Tilv rvyayeyiv.

Z ከደኖ

£.

¥ reads iY:

በምር:

# 8-4 read THEY Xa correction of later times.

£ቤሆP

o8 WY

X".

aw omits. Instead of& m/read (X.
m7, ae/BI8IPn. tux omit. Jcd/I0B5yayp
read Ati
=y omiis.
au prefixes.
™ u omits next four words,
21 / omits.

= omits.
for AR

5 ፀ reads ሐዋዛት፡
5 / reads ፈት};

/ ሕዋት
4
reads £ቤሆPa;
5 Corrupt
72. m,l8read AYE:
9 ውላ
/ ውል

au omits with next four words.
5 # reads aAh@t:
5,8,
gu ROO;
u omits next two words.
9. መዞ, 8 read ANAኩ;

5 gw 8. Zin full ሰብY}E:
ዐ3.ፎወ፡

5 mu.

reads ወሰብAYi
reads ቁዳያY:

Z omits.

# adds A705

= m reads

ያpዳLYi

8spዳRውY:

% iB:

ፃ/u read LRN
Fu, dg omit.
aI
5 Bracketed as a dittography.
aw omits.

Ha omJ)ወ£gi
ጸውፀጻዎሙ፡

read
5am.
m8 read AA;
For Hog: of 2 other MISS. read

x omits A before hh: and pe;
Bb

miread Ry
i a. B omits.

0 9g omits.

4

reads

186

መጽሐፈ፡

ሰሸዙሎመሙ፡ ቅ.ፎሜሁ።

22. ወይቤስ

ውኣቲ፡

'ጸዓ.ፎው፡

ጀኣምነ፤

መጠጦጓኻዎሙ፡
23. ወናሆ፡

ዝኩ

ዛኛ፡

ለዝኩ

XC. 21-28,

ብጻሲ፡፡ ዘድዴጽሕፍ፡ በቅ.ድሆሁ፡ ኣንዘ፡

ወ“ዴቤሎ፡፡

ንገመጸሙ፡፣

ጸበፃ0ት;’ ወ“ገሂጾመ፡" ቁትሰ፡ ብዙ

ሹሎመ“።

ኣሱራን፡።

“ርጺኩ፡

ሰኣ፡

ኖሎት

“ኣምዚ፡ ጸዘዝክዎመ፡

ወቐመሙመ፡፣ ሹሎመሙ፡”።

ኣለ

ኣሙንቱ።"

ቅ.ድፎሆሁ፡፡

24. ወሸነኔ፡

ኮነ ቅ.ፎመ፡ ኣምክዋኳብገ፡' ወትዀኩነፉ; " ወኮፉ፡ »ጋጥጻ፤'፡ ወሑሖፉ፤ መኻነ፡ ሹነኔ;'" ወ“ወይደይዎመሙ

ውስተ፡ ዕመቅ፡” ወምሱኳ፡ ኣሰ” ወይልህብ፡ ወምሱኣ፡፡ ጸዕማደ;። ኣሰት።።

25. ወዝኩ፡።

ሮ።ላዊያን;።

ትኩሣፉ፡።

ማዕምቁ፡።

ኣሰቸ።”

26. ወርጺኩ፡

“ወኮፉ፡

በማኣከሰ፡

ም.ፎር፡

ዘ“ምሱሉዕ፡

ወችክኝፉ፡።

ሹሎመሙ፡።

ወኮኑ;

ጋጥጻኔ፡'

ወተወድዩ፡፥

“በውጻቲ፡

ሂዜ፡

ኣሳ»
ጋጥጻ

ጳጻሙንቱ።

ከመ

ተርሣወ፡

ወጸምጽኣዎሙ፡
ወተወድዩ፡

“ውስትዝሽ፡።

ውስት“;

ወዝን” ማዕምቅ፡። ኮህ በየማኒ፡ ለዝኩ፡። ቤት።
ጸባ7ዕ; ኣንዘ፡ ድውዕዩ፡ ወ'ጸዕፀምቲሆሙመ፡ ዶውዕዩ።፡"

“ጀማዕምቅ፡”

ለኣልኩ፣

ከማሆሁ፡

ጸባፃዕ0፣

ጽሱላን፡

ኣሳትነ፡

ወውዕዩ

ዕመቁ፡።

27. ወ“ርጺኻዎመ፡ ሲኣልኩ፡"
28. ወቐቁምኩ፡፥ ኣጻርጸይ፡ ጻስከ

* te omits.
sau.
+0
መ reads እኩ

Smit BDO.

full ሰብ3i

Breads H. sw omits together with next word.
5 omits.
,3 omit,
mg
8. # in full ሰብዓቱ
ድ omits.
Fg 50x read LNs
729 read JwመAPms
smu. gin

£ omits.

" ደ ኮዶ

? mg/L

Zu read R70;

8 A705

" u omits.

1 wu reads ብHWDY: and omits next three words.

a reads PLR:

52 B save that for

AHH” F reads RHHnPPi
# reads YA; A AHH
m9 aE; Hig omits)
AHH; ! AH: RAHHnPes
» td read Atራi (+O).
mn 98 trans.
after PE". su omit.
5 w omits next: four words.
7 ww prefixes 0.
5 0,b omit.
5 Fmended from 00h;

15 F reads DTA);
nu BBc amu, ec

read ሳት: 8 0m: aሰት'i mu omit next four words,
1°. Other MSS. Ei
= 0. m, 8 read ወልልኩ፤፣ / ወጻሱ፤ ። ወ.
3 3. መያ read ሰብኳ፤ an / ስብጽ፤
both corruptions for ሰብ3i ss omits.
5» 0b prefix ©.
5
prefixes ©.
8 ውስት፡ ዝኩ

5,

Bc.

=“ aL
wu omits.

መ reals ማOምቅት፡

/ reads PNY; 8B PAውY;
ie. mg read 0H: #0.
9/ መዓምቅት፡፥

“ መዓምቁ፡

5 m prefixes H.
ag, 8-c/xa. 9 reads MOY; SeFxa ARO
8,
ድ rads ምድረ ኣሰት'፥ 9 ምሱዕ፤ ጻሰት፡
5% 0B omit together with next three
words.

5 ae FBR Du trans. after BTA;

5 g reads phi

wu omits.

at omits.
aw omits.

Other MSS. read Hi
mt B-gla. #, 91a read 0wy:i
a adds EC H.
TP DcgIO0X,aS. m reads በWYE;

ወዝኩ

‘»ክወ(yomJርጺW; Hh

0 ሠ reads CA

ኣሱ

ne.

= 9 reads OY;
mB read Ai

i

9 ማ0PE;
9, a/fysrtn

u omits,

» m adds AY: H.

9/ AH: £ዒi

u omits.

XC. 28-32.

መጽሐፈ:

ህዛናክ፡

187

ተመወሞ፡ ሰዝኩ፡ ቤት፡፡ ብሱድ፣ ወ“ጸውፀኣዎመሙ፡፣ ሰ"“ሸሎመሙ፡፣ ጸዕማ.ድ፡’ ወዙሱ፤ ጸትክል'ቱ፡፡
ወ፣ስኒ፤ ሰውኣቱ፡ ቤነ፡፣ ተጠውመ፡፡ ምስሴሆ፣፥ ወጸውፀጻዎ፡ ወወደድያዎ፤ በሄ"መካንጌ;" በየማ፤፡
መድር።
29. ወርጺኩ፡ “ኣስከ፡ ጸምጽጸ፡ ጻኘዚጸ፡ ጸባኘ0;፡ ቤ1፣ “ኘJደሰስ፡ ወዓቢዩ፡"
ወውልዑሰ፡ “ኣም
ዝኩ፡“ ቁዳሚ፡። ወ“ጸቁሞ፡'" ውስነ፣፡ መካ" ቁዳሚት'፡። “ንተ
ችጠብሰሰት፡" ወሸዙሎመሙ፡ ጸዕማ.ደ፡፤ ዚጸሃ፡ ሐኗሳኘጌ፡” ወስሪ፡ ሕፈኗስ፡። ወዐቢይ; ኣምቁዳሚት፡
ብሲት፡። ኣንተ ጸውፀጾ፡ ወሸሎመ፡። ጸባ70፤ ማኣክከባ።
30. ወርጺኻዎመሙመ፡ ሲሰ“ሹሎሙመ፡።
ጸባኘ70;። ኣሰ፡ ትርፉ፡። ወዙ” ኣንስሳ፤ ዘ“ዷበ፡ ምድር” ወ’።ዙሱ፡። ጸዕዋፈ፡ ሰማይዶ
ዴወፎቁ።።

ወዴሰኘዲ፤

በዙሱ፡፤ ቃል።

31.

ለኣልኩ፣

ጸባኘዕ፡።

ወ“ያስተበቀቍዕዎሙ፡”

ወ።ጸምኔሁ፡።

“ጻልኩ፥

ሂ“ላሰ፡

ዴሰብሱ፡

ወዴዶሰምዕዎሙ፡።

ጸንድወ፡።

ወ።ጸጋዘኔ፡።

በኣዴዩ፡ |ኣሰ; ቀደመ“ ጸዕረጊኒ፡]። ወኣጻዴሆ፣ ሰ“ውኣቲ" ዶቤሳ፡። ኣንዘ፣ ትጻግሣዘ፤፡ ጸዕረጊኒ፡።
ወጸንበፉ“።ኒ፡;“ ማኣክሎመሙመ፡። ሲዝኩ፡" ጸባኘዕት፡። ኣንበሰ፡ ትኩን;

i np.

Dillmann proposed mi

y reads ውሞ:

ቫነኔ።

325. ወጻእኩ”

» YሰTጥmመi

Other MSS.

ጠም
We should read ም;
። 5 ads ዓቢድ፤
3 tu read ROBNዎP:
tu read Wi
° u omits next eight words.
£. mt8-ya read tnt;
YA

#4 ችከሱ፡
Ynውምi
ቤት በ.

7 # adds tሱ፡

0 adds ሹሉ

s mn omits.

sh B-dya.

ያ,n Yomi
So 4y save that they prefix @©.
F reads onli
wu omits.
Sa, af IIR

AIHA: RY” ኣስከ; RB".

So also u but that it omits ahh:

m reads

i" # reads AB. # adds
Bcdglowxy,ay read

5 Z reads in nom.

wu trans.
uF, 8B, mg/u read Am.
5 fF. Other MSS. PRE;
15 g reads
ጸቁውም፡
7 CFB IOXY aD. a, apefn read ony;
15 w reads PRE;
5 m omits.
bux add YMA; ሐዲስ;
” ። reads ሐዷሳY; and omits next five
words.
5 4 reads 00 &;
OIIES,
A am (save that F omits መ) and
acgifloal.
mi beFhnpyx read AHR: (save that m omits OY). Seeing that
Fm, which are the chief representatives of the two readings, omit @, it is possible

that AY; Rው” fr“ (or JHA) A” aA: constitutes a single sentence. In
that case we should emend R70; into R70; and for Ma’ read AJA and take
ኣገ; . . . ኣማኣክሳባ፡ together = sf je. Then we should have ‘from which He had
sent forth all the sheep.
Sau. B reads Wa;
8—~e read Wr

=» aw omits.
I OIE
7 ww omits next seven words.
5 m reads AY
0 e omits next three words,
au.
# ይወ.

5 ¢ reads ስችበቅ0;

3 mp8. gu omit,
5 g/l. ድ reads Nምሽኩi
g/ write in full AAW: ሠAN'E:
reads £. 2 omits.

5 ድ reads ወድቁ:

mn aምኔሆ
SB.
ie. Other MSS. R34:

ew trans. &” before AA;
55 2 reads RH
a Bracketed as an explanatory gloss.
0 gu omit,
ሓ nm, ¢ch read ቤላ;
2 B. m reads ROCTL
AOC;
9 ABYC;

/ AOC:

ua omits.

“au.
# reads As
Sm adds Hi
9/H.

5 w reads DRINé;
3 ሲልኩ

4 g omits.
# rg

5 w reads ANA:

wm reads በ7015

u, 8B ጸባ)

188

መጽሐፉ:

ጸባ70;

ኮኔ፡ ሹሎመ፡፥

ጸዓዳ፡

ወጸዬረ፡

ህኛ፡

ዚጸሆመ፡

*0ቢዩ; ወንጺሕ።፡

ሓሰ; ትሕሱ

ወትዘርዘኗፉ፡፣ ወዙሴ፡፡ “ጸራዊት፡ ገዳም

በ'ውጻቱ፡

ወጻንገዚጸመ።

ቤኝ፥

XC. 35-38.

ሰጻጸባ7ዕ፡; ተፈሥሐ

ወሰ

33. ወሸሎመ።

ጸዕዋፈ፡ ሰማይ፤ ትጋብዉ፡

“ዐቢዩ; ፍሥሠመሓ፡፣ ጳስመ፡፡ ኮኒ፤ ሹሎሙ፡

፮ራ፤፡ ወ“ገብጽ፡፡ “ውስ

ቤቱ ።"

34. ወርጺኩ፡፥ አስከ፡፡ ጸስከብዎ፤ ለ“ውጸቱ፡፡ ሰፎፍ፡"

ዘ“ተውህበ;።”

ወጸኘብጻዎ፤

“ውስተ

ሰጸባኘ0;"

ቤቫ።"

ወ“ኝተማ፡'፡

“ጸም"ዋ.ፎመ፤

ሰኣኳፓዚኣ፡ ወሹሎመሙመ፡ ጸባ70;፡ ትጸውዐፁ፡ " በውኣቱ፡ ቤት፣ ወጺሇያፃመሮሙ።"
ቲሆመ፡

ለዙሎመሙ

36. ወርጺኹዙ፡፥

ተትክሥት፡ “ወይኔጽፉ፤

ከመ፤

ከኔ ውኣቲ፡

ወርዚኹ፡

ከመ፡ ተወልደ፤

ገዳም፡

ወ።ሹሱ፡።»

ቤት

ሠናዩ;

395. ወ“ጸዕ ይን

ጸልቦ፡፡ በማጻከሎሙ፡።

ዐቢየ፤ ወርኘበ፡።” ወምሱል፡።” ፈፎፉደ።

ኔ።ሳባህም፤ ጸዓዳ፡

ወ“ጸቅርንቲሆ፡

“ጸዕዋፈ፡

ሰማዶደ፡።

ይፈርህዎ

“ሰ

ጸዝማኗሆመ፡፡

38. ወርዚኩ፥

ኣስከ

ተወሰጠ፡።

ወ።“ቁዳማዊ፡;።

“ከኔ

ማጻከሎመ፡፥

ተነገር፡።

2. Other M55, read 0;

Di&ሕi

1

ወጀ“ዘጺ“ይሬጺ፡

ገቛ

Soe

ዐበዴደት፡”

ወ።ዙሲ፡”

ጸራዊት፡

“ወያስተበሦዕዎ፡

በዙሱ፡፡

ፉዜ።።

ወከፉ፡ ሹሎመሙ፡ “ጸልህምት፣

ጸዓዳ፡።

ነገር፡፡ ከኮ ጸርቹ፡፤ ዐቢዩ”

ወቦ

ወ*ውልኣቱ፡

# omits next three words.

2 2 omits.

° # reads YHCHE:
= s# omits.
? 05 read REY:
5 b reads ስ];
77
trans. # omits EN;
s m reads ANN:
1 # reads ‘2ራY;
1 g reads AIብጽ

12, Bho.

a2 read A@E;

#5 ውስ1፡

ቤሻ; (፡ adding ው;

above the line).

ዕ ውል] ቤነ
15 F omits.
a B reads YብVAI
= mu omits next seven words.
5» 2. Breads ውስ]; ቤቱ
በቤቱ፤
5! ሰቤቱ፤ ። ois.
5,8. m/read hla;

ፃ DY

uw omits.

M55. ትOጽa
25 B reads DA:

7 au.

wu, B omit.

sf.

thn read Ys

All other

NEB.
# reals fJPCDS
I FIP EOD
EAOTIES:
1 a, 3 reads Thy;
= 3 adds ጸምኔሆ
35 m reads H.

= m reads y0". wu omits.
= m adds ክመ፤ ኮኔ; Cቷበ፡ ። reads ርብ
0
all MSS. except #, /7, In read gi; au omits.
#efFh omit, p erases,
“ n omits.
5 mtu read ቢት
» OE
0 ag, FB».
PX read WN
abcgsR/0a0
ths
Dc read WN
wu omits.
= ureads ROPE
gu omit.
°° m reads
ችወሰጠ፡
5pm
trans.
mg read AAV]: AYA:
o/cgeBis/x,a
ጸልህም1፡ ጸንድወ፤ ሃያ "ምት ጸዓድወ፡
£,l3. ar omit.
7 c reads pars
5 au, a, and arn save that the latter add 0 before A’ and for YIC; read Yle:

uw supports text but that it omits FIC; bcg/ox,a8 read በAhNa;

hy, YIé:i

c/s5

hy; 11e:i በማ".
YIC: is to be regarded as a misrendering of Bu which the translator
took to be Bua but which was a transliteration of the Hebrew DX), Goldschmidt
(Dp. 01) holds that n2t5 was the original word and that this was afterwards corrupted
into npi5 meaning « word. But this would make the text absurd,
9/read li

RCTS

መጽሐፈ:

ውስት

ርኣሰ፡

“ጸቅርንት፤

*Dደበ፡

ሹሎመ፡፥

ጸልህምች'።፡

ዐበይ

ዛኛኻ፡

ፀሰምተ።

189

ወ“ጻፃዚጸ፡፡ ጸባኘ0፡ ትፈሥመሕ፡

39. ወጸኔ፡፡

ሰከብኩ’

ማኣጻከሎመ፡።

ተደቤሆሙ፡፡

ወነቃህኩ፡፡

ወ'ርዚኩ፡

ዙሎ።
40. ወዝንቱ" ውኣጻቱ፡ ራኣይ ዘርጺኩ፡፥ ጻንዘ;። ኣሰክብ፡፡። ወነቃህኩ፡“ ወባረኻዎ፡
ሰኣግዚጸ፡ ጽፎቅ፡ ወሎቱ ወሀብኩ፡ ስብሕት።
41. ወ።’ኣምኔሆ፡'፡ በከይኩ፡፥ *0ቢዩ፡
ብኻካዩ፡ ወጸንብዕዩ፡ ጽዋመ፡ ሓጻስከ፡" ዚኻህልኩ፡ ተንፃቻ1;" ሰበ ጸሬጺ፡” ኣሱ” ዶወርዲ
ፉደበ፡ ዝኩ ዘ“ርዉኩ፡። ኣስመ፡ ዙ፡።” ይመጽጻ፡ ወ“ይትፌጺጸም፡።” ወዙሴ፡ በበ፡ ካፍሱ፡
መኘገበሪ፡”

ሰብኣኳ፤

ትርሓጳዩ

ሲት።

42.

በዶኣቲ፡።

ሴሲ’

ተዘከርኳዎ፡።

ቁዳማዩ፡ ወበኣንቲጸሆ፡”" በከደኩ፡ ወተሀወኩ፡። ሓስመ፤ ርፈኩ፥ ውጻት፤
XርL. ወይጻኒ፡ ወኢእ.ፎዩ፡ ማቱሰሳባ፤ ጸውዕ ሲች፣ ዙሉ “ጸጋዊክ፤
ወጸስችጋብኳ፡

ሲት፡ ዙሉ

ደቁ፤

ሰዓሲም።

2. ወ“ጽምኔሁ፡፡ ሑረ፤ ማቱሰሳ፡ ወጸውዖያመ፡። ለዙሎመ፡
ሲ“ጸዝማደ፤

ዚጸሆሁ።”

ራላዩ።

ጻምክ፡፦

ሓስመ፤ ቃል፡ ይዴጴውዐ0ኒ፡
ወመገንፈስ፡ ትዕወት” ሳዕሴዩ፡።
ከመ ዘርዚኻመ፡። ሹሉ ዘይዴበጽሐክመሙመ፡ ኣስከ

በምዐፁ፡ “ደቂቁ

ሰጠሕልም፤።

3. ወችትሪናገሮመ፡፥

ሄኖክ" ዙሉ”

ጸጋኃዊሆ። Jቤሆ፡ ወ“ጸስትጋብጸሙ”

ለዙሎመ፡፡

“ውደ

ጽድቅ"

ወደቤ;

ሃገረ፣ ጸቡኸኻመሙመ።፡

ያ, 8-2.
8» read በውስት፥
ሠ, 5 read ውስት
ያሃ። 0.
2£. m reads
ጸቐርንቫ፡ ዐበይት ጸሲማት፡ ያ "ርን1፡ ዐበዴት፡ ጸሳማነ፣ ሃ። "ርን ("ርን ።) ዓበዶጊ፡
Aጸሲሊማቲቱ፡ 5 "ርንY; ዐቢያት፡ ወጸሲማት፣
፣ ያ reads መጋዝጸ፤
• We should expect
£0ቤUሁ; here as Beer first pointed out.
5 sé omits,
5 # reads DARIN;
7 » adds
ምስሴሆሙ፡
5 wu omits next nine words.
5 mm omits.
1 g reads DH;
n m reads &AE; Fy) omit.
=.
reads D. mg/ omit.
5m.
read

aስnብi

ms trans. after ጽEi

”

omits.

/ reads APs

u APL: (sic).

7 £,abcdelox,ab. mg FIs» trans. wu omits Ant:
reads ©.
TO7YI
mF omit next two words.
s# next seven words.
RB

omit.

# adds AN;

5 F reads HAR

1 £. m reads AA;

97! RNAi

5 g,e omit.

= 0 reads H.

o omits.

5 6 reads ምፃባኛ፡ ሲ.

# ምፃበፉ፡

ይ ወይጻቲ
5 w prefixes ©.
e reads በAYEAVPa # omits.
5 ድ ሬጓባs

ደቁቁ፡ ጳምክ፡

u omits ሊት: fN:

7 au, adqFIRIn0pyab.

ሲት፤ ጸጋዊክ፡

መ,/።

55 wu omits next three Words.

5 መ reads Rስችጋብጸሙ፡

5 9 reads RHA

፤ ውሱ

ጽፎቁ፣

bcex በቲ:

ፀ-5።»ወ5 ውሉዳ ጽፎቁ፡

nu a. 8 reads ደቁ;

ሲሊ

in this clause, and

i gu.

mh 8 read AOE:

om

gu, B read YO;

5 m reads RCA

4 ጽድቁ

» reads AH:

2" ፀያሠ read ዴት’.

c reads THhCMT:
5 a. 8 reads AA:
» aeharead ptUውhi # omits next four words.

ወጸስት"

5 Pmt.

3-5 omit.

1 9 reads
DOI

Trmiadd

0 ድ,» .

፡» ለውሱዳ፡ ጽፎቁ፣

= m reads WANs

su omits.

መu

DAO Pa;

read &ጽ.EY;

። ውሱደ፤ ጽድቁ

190

መጽሐፉ:

ዛኛኻ፡

XCI. 3-7.

ወጸጽምጽ፡ በርትዕ ቃሰ።። ጸታፉዩ
ኣስመ፡ ጸሰምዕ፡። ዴቤካመ“ ወኣነፃግረከመ፡ ፍቁራን
ጸፍቅርዋ።

ሰ፡ርችዕ፡ ወ*ባቲ።

ውፉ።፣

4. ወጺ“ት'ቅረቡ፡፡ ኘበ፣ ርችዕ፡ በክልሌ፡ ልእብ፡"

[ወጺትችግበፉ፡ ምስሰ፡ ኣሰ፣ በክልጹ፤ ልብ፡|
ጸሳ፤ ፁኗ፡። በጽደቅ፡። ደቁቅዩ።
ወድኣጻቲ፡ ትመርንክመ፡" በፍናዋኝ፡'፡ ቴራ
ወጽድቅ, ይከውን ለክሙ ቡታፊፌ።
5. ስመ ጸጸምር፡። ከመ፡ ዴጺንዕ፡” ህሳቹ፡;” 2ፃፍ0;። በፉደበ;። ም.ፎር
ወ“ሻትት'ፌፊጸም፡። “መቅሠፍት ፀቢድ;። ፈፉበ፡ ምድር
ወ።ጓችፌጸም፡ *ዙሹሳ፡ ዓመዛ፡።

“ወትት ገዘም;- እምሥ ረዊ;።

ወዙሱ፡

ሕገንጻ፤ የጋልፍ።

6. ወ።ሻ.ደፃም፡ ካዕበ; ዓመባ፡ ወችት'ፌጳጻም፡። ሄበ፡ ም.ፎር፡።
ወ።ጓሻጸንሽ፡ ሹሱ፡። ፃብረ፤ ዓመዛ፤ ወ“ፃፍዕ፡ ወጸበሳ፡ ካዕበተ።፡።
7. ወ“ኣመኒ;፡ ትልህቅ፡ "“ኃጢጸት፣፥ ወዓመዛባ፡። ወጽርፈት፥ ወፃፍ0;

በ“ዙሰ፡ ትፃባር፡።

1 reads CEO;
ጓጻስምዐ፡ ያ ጸስምዕ፡

# omits next seven words.
22,18. mg# omit.
5 F reads
tau, B reads &EቁራYt:
2 5 ተሮas ጸፍቅርዎ፤ ሰጸምሳካኻሄ
5 m, # read 00
'Eiu8. mg read EF
Ss am. m, 8 read hi

ያ ጸፍቅርዎ፡

2 ሠ reads Yes

« ቅረቡ

0 c reads NA:

u Bracketed as an interpolation

(in Greek or in original Hebrew 7). Zu omit through bmi. (7) Found in all other
MSS.
5 am.
m,HeB read hi
1 ag, B~Hu (but # trans. after pti).
ድ reads በርት'ዐ፤ ። ሰጽ.ድቅዩ፡
taf, ny.
reads በጽ.EYi
uy omit, wu omits
next five words.
15 Breads ትመሕርኻመs
x ትመርሐi፤
5 00 Ba.
reads

ወበፍናዊነ፣
, ዕ በፍንዋቫ፣
/። በፍኖሻ፡
5 9 reads ዴክወጎከመ“፥
። ወትከውን ሰዝመሙ፥

BEN
BEY:
” 9 reads ትAY0;
3 reads VAEy;
= 9 reads 3405 8 JAC:
3c. Other MSS. £0
EE
ያ ትፌፊጽም፡ ሃ። ትትፈጸም፡ 5 ድደትፊጸም፤
= 29 Dut in acc. u reads ባይ: m adds
Ei u omits next five words.
Fm, B-n0b. g reads TR;
/u ትትLRAም
nob ት".

3 breads BEY
" ድ reads ጽጸጾምሮ፡

This word may be an interpolation.

iii
ማያ, 8-0. m,0read ti 3መ4፡ /tሱ፡
im g/u read AሥራዊY:; (ወRሥራEዊY; ) YY]

In that case omit the © before

9 መቅሠፍት ሹሉ
5 e reads DX.

Sip
0 a omits.

x F908. miread 1H".
wu omits.
=u omits next four words.
8 m, B~agrn,
ድ reas ትaዛሽ፡ ዙሱ፤፥ ያ፣ ትኣኝዝ፡ ሹዙሉ፡
ሪ፣። ትትጸንሽ፣ ቫሹሳ፡
። 3 adds ብረ
5 F,8. m reads pnOብት'i
97 በ0n001 ("151). wu omits.
Just before this word
i inserts XCVIIV-CV
III. io and then 2 resumes with O0Y;
®2g,B. m reads

ኣምኔሆሁ፡

!Aምዝ:

7, 8 read ©.

። omits.
5 a. B reads TAC:

au

wu reads BAY
5 omits next word,

5 gd: D5".

ag

REE YI

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛና:

191

ወ“ትልህቅ፡ ዕልወቫ፡ ወጸበሳ፡፡ ወርዙስ፣፣
ወ'ጦቅሠፍት፡ ዐቢደ;፡ “ይከውን ጳምሰማይ፡፣ ዷበ፡ ኣሱ፡፣ ሹሎመ፥።
ወ'ይወፀኣ፡ ኣንግዚኣ፡› ቅኗስ፡" በ“መዓ1፡ ወበ“መቅሠፍቫ፣
ከመ

ይግበር;

ቫነኔ፤ #በ፡ ምድር።

8. በኣማንቱ፡ መኖጥዕል፡ ትትገዘም፡" 7ፍ0፡ “ኣም ሥረዊሃ፤"
ወ፣ዓመዛ፤ “ምስሰ፤ ቱኮሕዙት። ኣም“ታሕት፤ በማይ
9. “ወ
ይችወሀብ፡ ምስሰ፡ ጸሕዛብ፡
|
ወ።ማሣፈ.ድፎ፡ በጻሰነ፣ ትገድድ፤።
ወፖያወፀኣዎመሙመ፡። ጸምሹሱ፡፥ ም.ፎር
ወ“ ይትገደፉ፤።

በዙኔ፡”

ጻሳነ፡

ወደትሐፐኮሲሉ፡። በመዐነ፡። ወ“በ“ዙነኔ፡ ጋል” ኣንተ ሰንሰም።
10. ወይትነሣኳ፡ ጻድቅ” ኣምንዋሙ፡።
ወይገነሣኳ፡ ጥበብ፡ ወ“ዴት'ወሀብ፣ ሎሙ
11. [(ወ“ኣምኔሁ፡፡ ዴትገዘመ፡።” ጸሥራወ፡። ዓመዛ፡ ወጋጥጻን፡ ዴትሐጕኮሱ፡ በሰዴፍ፡ “ኣም
ጽኗፉፉን፡። ይትገዘመ፡ በዙ መካን; ወ“ጻሰ፡;። ድሔልድቱ።። ሰኘፍዕ፡" ወ“ኣለ፤ ይገብርዋ"

ሰጽርፈት፡፥ ይትሐሕጕኮዙ፡። በመጥባሕች።]
12. ወጻም.ድሣረዝ፡። ትከውን፤ ካልኣት
“ሰምንት ሰንበት“ ኣንተ፡ ጽድቅ
1 g reads +UAY:
5 7,13.

5 Fu omit.

mt read 0A:

5 s# omits.

su omits.

+a, 00.

ና ሠ ፃ/reጻባ ትከውን

Other MSS. omit.

። ይመጽል፤

7

omits.

* a ads ወድሠወጽል፡ ኣግዚኣ፡ ቅዱስ፡ በመዐቫ፡፥ ወመቅሠፍት፡ ፀቢዶ፤ ይክከውን፣ ኣምሰማይ፡
£0; a መ
m7 omit.
i0 0 omits.
n wu omits. # adds £0; EC
15 mm reads NA.
5 m reads DA.
aeያ/hfioag9 ©.
wu omits.
#2 reads
£YIበCi
05 read ትገ;
16 FID Vc diI0Xab. m reads Ah; Rey:
au omits.
All MSS.

aeFhfinysw read Aሥራዊy
7 #9 omit, and possibly rightly.
but #9 add ጸራ:
5 mw omits. All MSS. but 29 add here

(uy, Jc/5p omit £YሐP

* ureads0.

05.

Other MSS.omit.,

m8.

Z7 read AE:
= u omits next three words.
5 9 omits.
#5 reads POOP;
=» ድ reas ጓገደፍ፡ ያ ይገገዘሙ፡
5 wu Omits next four words through hmt.

7 reads DRAሓEA: (sic).
5 f reads AmመዓYi
= a omits.
% m reads ጽ.EY:
armg, x, fu B-X read Ap;
me omits.

This verse is bracketed as an interpolation.

ዶገገዘም፡

55 miu, 8.

with next word.

ab 2p:

reads APCD;

8 reads APR};

» ይገብርዋ;

መ ያ rea ወይትሐ’”.

ያ ወትሐቶቱሱ፡

» 9 reads JA:
5 mg omit.

5 gu, B~o,

9 BCD:

(sic).

55 ehy read AY:

9 reads ሰ7ፉ0:

# omits.

“ ዴትዋተሴ፡

5

7 a,

Fm, 0 read
# omits

5 9 reads ቕድም

“nomi

reads AH:

same order is found in 9/ but for Ae" 7 reads ሰመ}: and / ALY:
ሰምኒት only and # ሰ30Y'; only. 5 reads ሰን01፥ LY:

Be.
iin.

Phe

m reads

199

መጽሐፉ:

ህኛኻ፡

XCL I2=I0S

ወዴደትወሀብ፡ ሳቲ ሰደፍ፡ ክመ፤ ይትገበር ቫኔ፤ ጽፎቅ።
ወ“ፎትጃጠዉ፡። ኃጥጻን፡ በጻደኾሆመ፤ ሰጻ.ፎቃን።
19. በተፍጻ’ጃታ፡፡

ያጠርዩ፡

ወድደትኘዃነ፡ “ቤተ ንገሥ
14. ወኣም.ፎግረዝ፣

ወሰ
ወሲ

ጳምጽድቁ፣

ታስዕ;' ባቲ

ሹኔ፣

ጽፎቅ፡

ትትክሠኝ"

ሰሱ

ዓለም፤

ይወፀሓ፤ ኣምፈፉበ፡። ሹሴ፡”። ምድር

ሰ“ሕቱኮሰ፡

ዓሰም"

ሰብኳ፡፣ ዴኔጽፉ፡። ሰ“ፍናዋት፡"

15. ወጻም.ፎሣግረ።ሽ፤;።

ዚጸሆመሙ፡

ዐቢይ፡ በ'ስብሕነ፣ ጻስከ፣ ሰንሰም።

በሰንበት

ትፃባሪረ;። ረሲዓ

ወ“ይጽሕፍ”

ጸብያት፡፡

“ኣምጻሰ፡ ዴገፍዑ።፡

በሰንበገ፣

[ወትችገበር፡ ጻምችጊሃ፤

ርት0።።

ዓሥርት

ሂ።ኣደ፡።

በቲ; ቫነኔ፥ ኣንት፥ ሰዓሰም፡

ሰማዶ፤ ዘሰንሲም፤]።

ዐቢዶዴ፡ ዘ“ይትቤቀል፡ ጳማኣጻክከሎሙመ፡። ሲሰመባኣኻትች'።።
16. ወሰማይ፡ ቀዳማይ” ይዴወፀኳ። ወዩጋልፍ፡
ወሰማይ፡ ኘዲስ፡ ድነ'ረጸይ፡
ወሲ

ጋዴደሰ፡።

ሰማያት”

' 0 reas ዴትወሀብ፣
MSS. read ወ&ጽ.EY;

በርሁ”

ሰብንች፡

9 ች3በር፡

‘SZ,

ምክዕቢት።።

The phrase recurs in ver. 14.

5 9 reads AA R1ፍ0Ps

wu omits.

«

Other

reads Yona;

2 a0, ad
70» Save that z reads A for ቢ.
9, Sce/hnx pbrefix®.
# Omits
with next two words, e trans. after LRP;
72. Other MSS, ቤች: ለን;

$m. 0y,b omit. Other MSS. read A.
‘2,8. mg/wu read ZNO:
Hn"ሰ; (sic). u reads ትት hwy
u wu omits next ten words.
5 9 reads N30;
# m, ela omit.
5 F9. / reads £ጽhéi
ዶጸጻሐፍ፡
ሀል፡

5,055.
ሃ reas ሲ3Eል፡ ሲዓባም፤
9, 3-0» ሐኾል፡ ዓሰም
17 zu omits.

15 0.

መ reads &ንዋች፤

/ ፍትወት;

ጽድደቅ፤

/5 ርትዕነ፡

1 Fu, Rn.

ሰብዕኝ፣

» reads oi.

read AE

#5,

5,

/ ሰብዓት፤

575 &ፍኖ1;

። ሲንኮል፡ ወንሰም፤ » ሹሱ፡ ዓሰም
75 g reads ኔሮ:
48 ይኔጽር:

7/5 ፍኖት;

# omits.

moh B~fn read YE:

# omits.

So almost u» YY”

2 reads
=
omits.
Other MSS.
0 0 reads

=u.

gin full

5 g/u, agpRoak.

Smo bceFInx

ምችን:

ሰዓመ:

Hሰማደi

This

clause appears in #1, abcgeZFhifIoxyas as YY] ምትን: IH I) ወሰማይ;
(ወሰላም; 5) HAA:
This clause was lost in ay throueh hmt. or, as taken above,
it 15 a gloss on the next line.

5 be omit.

is probably &a corruption of APA;

£0ቁ0; (sic).

7 # reads APRNs

eu omits.
5 0 omits.
55 a. 8B reads JAY;

u PCY:

25 mu.

u omits.

50 # reads RIE;
3 0, apn read ሰይ;

m7, 3-a58 add ንሰ

2 By read በሞ;

(= punivity which is found in 9.

5,8.
1 ወ
5

against 2, ap.

which

bey read

mgiread ANY;

ad ይመጽል፡
ረ ወይመ”.
reals ወይበርሆ፡ 9 ይበ".

5 mh 0b read መOY

ET EE NRCS

መጽሐፈ፡

17. ወኣም.ፎሣረዝሽ፡

ሰንበታሻ'፡ ብዙጋኝ፡

ዛኛ፡

199

ጻሰ፡ ጸልቦኝኘ፤፡ ጐልዬ፡፡ ሴዓለም፡

ወሸዙሎመሙ፡፡

በኒፉት፡’

ወበጽ.ፎቅ፡

ይከው

ወጋ

ጳምህዩ፡፡

ዚትችበሀል፡፣

ኣስከ፡

ለዓሰም።

18. ወይጻጨኒ፡ ጳብለኻመ፡ ፎቂቅዩ፡፣። ወጻርጳየሕክሙመ፡’ ፍናዋች፡" ጽ.ፎቅ፡ ወፍናዋች፡" 37ፍ:0፤፡
ወ“ጸርለጳዩክመ፡። ካዕበ" ከመ፤ ፓኣምና። ዘይመጽል።
19. ወዴ:
ስምዑኒ
ደቱቅዩ ወ“ውፉ፤። በፍናዋች፡፡ ጽ.ፎቅ፤ ወጺ“ችሖፉኗ፡ በፍናዋቱ"" ፃፍ0፤ ኣስመ፡" ዴችሐኾኮሲ፡
ሲዓሰም፤

ሹሎመሙ፡”

ልሲ፡ የሕውፉ፡

XርIL Hተጽሐፈ፡
ጥበብ፡ ጳምሹሰ፥
የጋድፉ፡፡

በ“ፍናዋች፡።

ዓመዛባ።

ጳምሄኖኳ፡ መጽሐፍ” |“ጸሐፈ ሓጻንክከ፡ ሄኖክ; ዘዙሱ፡። ጓትጻምርች።
ሰብኳ፤ ስቡሕ፡ ወ“መኵን ሹሰ፡፥ ምፎር፡] ሲሰሹዙሎመ፡፥ ውዩ
“ጻሲ፡

“ደበ፡ ዩየብስ፡።

ወ“ሰ።ቸውልፎ፣ ይደጋርያኘጌ፡።” ኣሰ፡ ዴገብና፡ ርችዐ፣ ወሰሳመ።
2. ጺትሕክዘጌ፡”" መንፈስክመ“ በ“ጸዝሽማን፤”
ሓስመ፡ መዋዕሲ፡ ወሀበ; ቁዲዷስ;። ወዐቢይ፡። ለዙሲ።፡
3. ወይትነሣኳ፤ “ጺ.ፎቅ፡ አምጌዎም፡
ዴገነሣጻ፤። ወየጋእፍ፡ በፍናዋች፡” ጽፎ
ወቤ ፍኖፔ፤ ወ“።ምሕዋፉ፥። በሂፉት፡። ወ“በ።ሣህል፡ ዘለንሰም።

‘20
B-Dcdgloyab. mh Bcgioyab read RAs
A+
» 58 LA
። PA: (sic).
# mg/u read 0.
2 0 reads its

°u omits.

J reads 0:

5 Bex trans. before AAA

au omits.

2 adds Whe:

SmB.

#9 read ACRPWRs

2g.
BD t read
“2. Other MSS. omit.

790, 8 read £Y0UA:

1? 5, a tread &ንዋተ፡

wu omits.

For preceding two words

:2.

። ፍኖቱ

3 gZu.

Other MSS. AC".
u im, a read @&iዋPY;

m repeats thrice inserting ©

beiore the third. B reads ስም0 £ omits.
#2 omits.
a, B-ፀcixab., mo read &ንዋችi ፀcrxa ፍZli

5 aL #, 8 read hr
9
muh 8read Tr:

Sani» B-Bcያxab

5 u reads ©.

m,Iab read ፍንዋች፤i

bcx €ፍኖ1:

5

Dre-

fixes ©.
B ፍዎች

e omits Nas
85 trans. it before A3ሲም;
1 7. miu read &£ኖYY:
5.
Other MSS. omit.
35. Other MSS. except a read merely

Aሐéi

For Rሕéi a reads Rሕፈs

f reads Htሰs

8» Hts

The following words require a verb.

» FW

5 2 ads ወትጳምርች፡

#. Other MSS. except a, e read #0; EC:
u, se omit.
a a£7BIR0D DEY:
Begin xya read ደራን: DR.
(+ ወዕ)ነጺቸሕዘጌ፣
= 05 prefix 0A.

that # omits YY),

(cf. xc. oy.

Z omits.

ሠ
5-5 ትሣዘንኝ፡
i ag, Ba,
SFpela.
mh B~e/Ja read ቢይ:

m reads በ&iዋ1፡

m Treads HiFi

AHJJAi

5 ፍኖ

Other MSS. HበiXYY

5.

5 2 OLS,
Poh read

#Z reads merely ጥብ:

wu omits next three words.

Other MSS. ምPዋéys

2,3
Gc

a0 fu.

Z reads BY
a omits.
zu omits.
21 7
(save

8 (save that # adds © before YY).

mw REY; Nps

Rat

5 Fm omit.

mg/u omit,

RH

es

104

መጽሐፈ:

ሄኛኻ፡

RCI XC

4. ዴሣሀሉ፡ ለጻድቅ ወሎቱ ዶሆሁብ፡ ርትዕ ዘለንሲም፡፡
ወዴሆሁብ፡ ሥልጣ ወይከውንኝ፡፡ በሂሩት ወበጽ.ፎቅ፡
ወ’ናሕውፉ፡፣ በብርሃን፤ ዘሰንሰም።
5. ወጋጊጸት፣ በ'ጽልመቫ ትጓትሕሐጕል፡ “ኣስክ፤ ለ3ሰም"
ወጺ“ትሻ'ረጸይ፡ ጻንከ፤ ጳምይድኳኣኳቲ፡ ዕሰገ፥ ኣጻስካ፣ ሰ3ሰም።
XCIIL.

ወጻምድሣረዝ:።

1ተ*ወUበi;

ሄኖኻ፡”

ወጽንዘኒ፡“

ይትናገር"

2. ወደቤ ሃኖኻ፡ በኣጻንት፡ ውሱደ፡ ጽደቅ” ወበኳጻንቱ፣ ሣፉ፤፤ ዓለም፡
ርት0፡።
ኣሎን፤ ኣብለክመ“። ወጓዩዪፎፀካመ። ደቂቅዩ፡ ጸ ውኣቱ፡ ሄኖሕ
በክ “ጸስተርጸዩኒ፤ ጳምራኣዩ፡ ሰማይ፤"
ወ።“ጻምቃሰ፡” ቁዲሰን፡ መላኣኳት፡”" ጸጻመርኩ፡
ወጻምኔ። ጸፍጸፈ፡ ሰማይ፤ ለበውክ።።
3. ወጸግዘ፣ “ኣንከ፡ ዴችሪገር፡ ሃኖሕ፡።” ኣመጻሕፍት፥ ወይደቤ፡
ስሃ ሰብዕ; ትወሲፎኩ፡ በ“ቁዳሚች፡ ሰንበት፡።”
ኣስከ ጸመ፤ ሸነኔ፡ ወጽ.ፎቅ፡ ጌፕዓገሠ፡፡።
4. ወ።ይቁውም፡። ለም ፎሣሬሂ፡ በካእጻቫ፡” ሰንበነ፡ “0ቢይ፤ ኣክደ፡”
ወኮወሕሱት፣ በቁለች፤።
ወባቲ ትክውንኽ፤። “ቁዳሚት፥ ፍጻ፡።
‘Fm.
ሰጻ.ፎቹ፡
ወይዴኬንን፤
sa.

ሕሰ

Other MSS. Rwy; (or “ZPNs).
2 reads p'Ei c omits.

፣ ul. 9 read ለጽድቅ
» ለዓሰም፡
« # omits next five words.
2 Z reads
5 op omit.
7 gu. Other MSS. read hውC:

9 aኳዛds በርትዕ ወ.

B omits.

5 nu, B read ©.

wu reads AYA

# YY'ረARt:

i0 sé omits.

u 9 reads ችረBE:

uw omits next three words.

5 # reads DAH:

Su save that 9 inserts WH before ¥PMi
m reads yn: hii
What the true text behind Ui; is 1 cannot discover.
12.
m gu omit.
# adds ¥PM:
5 wu omits next three words.

ጽፎደቅ፡

ጸመጻሕፍት።

ወበጻን፡

8 (conflate)

ጽድቅ: ወርት0:

7 0

B.

miu

#8 hii yn:
8 reads DAJH:
i? ag, g reads

read RAO

5 m omits,
» # reads RCA በሰማይ;
0 9 reads Ai
1 mg. # reads
ኣም
ሃ።, 8 ወም;
= aw omits next five words.
5, B-afhin.
mgt read

Aih: £ትSIC:I
before £YS".,

a/h8 read yn: £YS" Ahi So also # save that it adds AYH:
= mg omit.
5 m reads በሰብ); 9 ሰብ0; 58 omits.
5 2 omits.

7 # ras ተንገሥ፡ ኣንከ፣ ወይደመጽልጻ፤
nm.

gሃu read በበይ; ኣከይ፡

= ድ ras ዋው;

ቁዳማ፤ ፍጻ፡

5 mg.

= a.

5 ትቁውም፤፣

5 0ባይ፡ ኣኪት፡

=

reas በኻልእኣ፤

e reads AY

fu, 8 trans, 08 reading &A"B; HEY:

» ካልል፡
።» በዋል

£ reads

ERETIT 8

መጽሐፈ:

ህኖ

195

ወባቲ፣ ይድሣገጌ፡፡ ብጻሲ፡
ወጻም.ድሣረ፡፡ ትፈጸመ፡ ትልህቅ፡ ዓመዛ፡
ወ“ሥር0ዐጓ፣ ዴትገብር፡፣ ሰጋጥጻን።
5.

ወለም ድሣረዝ፡

በ“ሣልስት፡፡

ሰንበት

በትፍጻ’፡

ዴትጋረይደ፤ ብኣጻሲ፡ ሰትኳሰ፤፡ ቫነኔ፤ ጽ.ፎቅ፡
“ወተጸም.ፎሣሬሆ፥ ዴወፀኳ፡ ሰትክሰ፡ ጽ.ፎቅ፡ ለንሰመ፡ ዓሰም።;፡
6. ወ።ጸምድሣረዝ፡ በ“ራብዕት፡ ሰንበት፡፣ በትፍጻ’ን፡
ሂራያት፡ ቅዱሰን፤ ወጻዶቃን፡፡ ይትረጸይ፤፣
ወሥር0ዐት;።

ሲ“ትውልደ፡።

ትውልሮፎ፡

ወዐጺፎ፣

ይትገበር፡"፡

ሎሙ።

7. ወጻምድሣረዝ፡ በ“ጋምስ፡ ሰንበት፥። በትፍጻታ፡
ቤች፡ በብሐት፣ ወመንኘመኝ ዴትሐነጽ፡”፡ ኣስከ፡ ሰዓለም።"
8. ወጻምድሣረ“ሽ፡። በ“ሰድስት፡ ሰንበት ኣሲ፡;። ይክወተ፣ ውስቴታ
ወ ይትረሣዕ፣

አቦመ፡፥

ሰሹሎመ፡።

' u reads AVY;
5 mgnB.

28, Bc.

reads TAS

ጽሱሳኔ።

“ሹሎመሙመ።፡

uD.

c omits.

ኣምጥበብ፤።

u omits.

mgt read AEA:

« 0,n.

Since gm u read CON; &IAብC: (sic)

T take it that the IAC: is a corruption of £Y'INCS as it is again in ver. 6 in 9 only.
See note 11 below.

The passive and intransitive verbs in this and the next verse

point to &1"I0C; and the recurrence in ver. 6 of the actual phrase in our text.

emend the text wrongly into =C0Y;

£'IAC:

that g reads “EAራH

, 3 agree with the above

for EግeWi

3am; and 8 reads LRA;

2 0

ad

"ገልስ፡

#, BH

5 00 Save

save that #, B omit

for £ወፀgAi ሲ. Z omits first four words through hmt.

and for AY 9 reads HAYA:

I have obelized ምድ”

ወ”

AYA

lt= ur

avroy ‘yevijrerat T9 Purdy. This gives no intelliaible sense. The corruption, 1 take
it, lies in er airdv. This
= MANN which is probably corrupt for NINN = «his

posterity

7 9 reads AH:

ሰንበ

2 m

ወጻድፎ".

reads ©.

ድ rads ራኣዩ፡ ቅዳ” ወጽ.ፎቅ፡

B-B read verb in plural.
15 e omits.

ሰን".

trans.

g reads ራብ): ሰ}01i

0 mg,

8.

mm omits

So also wu but that it omits

ሃ ራዕያት፣ ቅዷሰት፡ ወጺፎቃ፣

/ reads AYCAE

1 g reads RIC:

8 reads ሰን" »5ምስ፡

5

/ 0.

“ያ,

5 0, ob read ወስርOYi

See note 4 above.

15 #2 reads YD".

ዓሰም
read ሰ.£hስi

au, g. mg read yt: / YE:
So also ay and trans. after NY",

rad ጽሴባን

5 dreads DWN

15 au,

7 s# omits,

w reads

JN;

15 g reads 3A;

0 ag, geBiino0.
21 ps omits.
5 Fm, en.

4 tu omits.

መያ
wu omits.

Bc Rxa
gt Ben

m adds © before AfNae;

5 = drefgilrovrey kapBiat rdvrey dr Tile opias = non bo5 335 yw".
Ct. Ps. xviii. sa
nréBnra ér) roy geo oy = RON "Ty.
That N0; is the rendering of drelgeiv follows

from x. 20 and v.85 civ.9. Moreover the parallel of blindness (RY 1) and godless.
ness of heart which appears in our text recurs in XC1X. 8.

196

መጽሐፈ፡

ሄኛኻ፡

RTT

ወ“በቲ፡;፡ ዩንር7;፡ ብጻሲ
ወበተፍጻ’ጃታ፡፡

ወባቲ

ይውዒ፡፡

ዴHረው፡፡

ሹሱ፡፣ ዘመደ

09. ወኣምድሣግረዝ፡
ወ“ብዘዙግኝ፡።

ቤ1፡ መንፃሥመት፡’

“ሥርወ

በ“ሰብዕት፡፡ ሰንበ

በኣሳሰ

ሣፉይ።፣

ጓኝነሣኳ፤ ትውልደ

ዕት”

ምንባራቲሃ፡።

ወሰ ምፃበራቲሃ፡ ፀልእወት'።።
10. ወ“በችፍጻታ፡። ይዥጋረዩ፡'፡ “4.ያኝ፡ ጻድቃን; ጳምችኻለ፤ ጽፎቅ፡'፡ ዘለዓለም
ሓሰ: ዶዥወሀብ፡ ሎመ፡ “ሰብንቱ፡ መኳዕቢችች፡” ትምህርት፡ ሰዙሱ፡ ፍጥረት ዚጸሆ።

11. [ጻስመ፡። መኔ

ውኣቱ፡

ሹሰ፡።

“ውጡደ፤

ሰብኳ፡።

ዘይክል፤ ሰሚዕዐ፡ ቃሉ” ሰቐዲስ፡

ወጺይችሀወክ፤ ወመ; ዘድኻል;። ከመ; የሕሊ፡ ጎሲናሆ፡ ወመኒ፡ ዘ ዴኳል፡ ነጽሮች፡። ሰዙሱ፡።
ምመፃበረ;። ሰማይ”
12. ወምንት ውጻቱ። ዘዴክል፡። ነጽሮት፡። ሰማይ፤ ወ“መፉ፡።
ውጻቲ፡ ዘደኳልእ፡ ጸጻምርሮ፡። ግብረ፡ ሰማደ፡ ወከመ፤ ይርጸዴደ፡። ነፍሰ; ወ።ኣመ። ጸከ፡”
መንፈሰ" ወዴክል፡። ነደረ፡;“። ወ“ቋመ፤ ጸከ፡። 0ሪገ1;። ወ“ይሬጺ፡“። ሹሉ“ ጸከናፊሆመሙ፡
1 0 reads HE:

2

0,0 omit next five words.

reads &£3CY:

TEA

2 m brefixes ©.

e reads መቐስ

gn DeFRInx read Hea

i

reads tri

IE

u omits.

« 0 reads £ዊa
mp

B-BeFRInX.

*£,8.

9g reads ስርው

Jዴልእ፤
reads JA; only. mCi DEA
2a, Bpn0XD,
gB-BnOXD
read ሰብ0;
0 08. Fm omit, # reads OAD;
ne,8., a read ብዝ
5 0, eB omit next two words through hmit., su omits next three words,
mf, 8-e,
£,eread APY
“ng omit.
»g appends ¥ to this word.
5 am, a(cy/ Bsn.

m reads £YDeRi bIopxyap RYOvt; 4» "ሰEi
"gape.
CEI. Greek
version. So also / 4H; R.EYi £,d/0y,a,5 read SH REY mn REY u AY:
and omits next three words.

en read At}:

ወጻ;

5 1 reads 8.£Y;

19 # reads ©.

1 mh cds0,B Save that / reads FY” not mY” and cdo %.

"ዓጌ፡ መኳዐቢት፣
#9 read ጥሪY

9,

require A

# reads

ፀረ s/n xa read ፮ ምኳዕቢትተ፡
። ፮ ምሕዕቢት.
I
e
5 au omits.
35 # omits.
a reads AK
The text seems to

before WA; or else an omission of #4 PE:

ሰብAi

55,

m0

read ite; (AE; 9) ብaሲi
omits.
® , ey read Pi;
5 #, dg omit next
five words through hint.
7 2 omits.
5 a, B reads ICY
more usual construction. g omits next seven words through hmt.
5 / reads IAéi
mdf
read wé&i c reads wéEi NIE;
5 u reads mri
= u, 8 omit next five words
throueh hint.
3 #reads RAEሮY:
=“ mgyread iY
5 g reads RAY

ST B-0. aH read CAS / eA 00 CAE:
Yrmng, DX, pac gH IRD
read Eh; # i445
= omits.
9 reads MAA; d omits next five words through
hmt.
0 mu BpXy. 29 read መiፈስi 8-0» mi;
nhB-o0. Zmg read
lei
ድዴርጸዴ፡

5 reads C1;

ss omits.

= g reads JANA;

5 ## Omits next [Our Words.

° # reads 31;

Nr reads

XCIHL. r2—XCIY, 4.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛና:

197

ወደሔልዮመሙመ ወ“ጸመ፤ ጸከኮ፡፡ ገብር ከማሆሙ
13. ወ።“መፉ;፣ ውኣቲቱ፡ ሹሱ፡፡ ብጻሲ
ዘዴሕክል፡ ጸምር
“ኣፎ፡ ውኣኋቱ፡፡ ራሣበ፡፣ ወኒኑጋ፤ ለምድር፡ ወለመኒ፤ ርኣዩ ጸምጠ፤፡፡
ሸሎሙ።
14. *ወጻመ፤ ቦቲ; ሰ ብጻሲ፡’ ዘድሕል፡ ጸጓምሮተ፡፡ ፉጋ ሲሰማዴይ፡ ወጻፎ፡
ውቲ ልዐልሪሃ፡ ወኗበ፡ ምንት ጺገዐት፡› ወሚመጠን፤፡ “"ጐልቁመ፡ ሲ“ከዋክብት፣ ወ“በጸዴቱ፡

0ርፉ፡። ሹሎመ፡፡ ብርሃናት]

XCIV. ወይabis aብለnመ፡። ደቂቅ: ጸፍቐርዋ፣ ሰጽፎቅ፡ ወባቲ ሖፉ፡።
ኣስመ፤ ፍናዋተ፡ ጽፎቅ፡ “ዶዶደሱ፤ ወዶትወክካፍ።
ወ“ፍናዋች፡" ዓመዛባ፤ ፍጠን; ዴተሕኾኮል፡ ወየሐሕዕ9።።
2. ወሰሰብኳ፤ ጸሙራን፡;። ጳምሻውልፎ፣፤ ዴትክሠትጓ፡።” ፍፎናዋተ;" 37ፍ0;። ወምሞኝ፡
ወይርጎቁ። ጳምኔሆመሙ፡
ወጺ“ድዴተፐልውዎሙ፤፤።
3. ወይጻኬዜ፤፤ ሲክመ“፡ ጻብል፡። ሲጻ.ፎቃን፡
ቪ“ሻጮሖፉ”

በ“ፍናዋች፡”

ወጺበ“ፍ5ዋተ;።

ወጺትቅረቡ፣
ከመ፡

ልኩይዴ።

ሞኝ

ገቤሆሙ፡

ጺችችትሕኾኮሱ።።

4. ።ጸሳ፡ ፍቅዲ” ወሣረዩ ሲካኻመ፡ ጽ.ፎቁ። “ወሐይወች፥
ወ“

በ“ፍናዋች፡።”

ግሪ

ሰባም”

1 9 reads ARAN
8, dread &30C; #u prefixes ©.
28,8. a= read
TE
1 We should expect AFPii'tt; here or else an omission of tA ብaሲ
See note 23, p. 196.
2 ZF reads ጽAምሮኝ፡ ©.
bc Rጻምር፡
o se omits.
7 # reads CAM;

# trans. & andr.

0 g reads ጽI0Yi
Ai

8 LAs

after EYE;

Yong:

= 9 omits,

wu omits.

ሪ ለፍናዋች፡

u ደሰ

Fu.

mtB ROC

m, Bread hi

= agua

kai Bexrat.

5 ደሰ

ድYወhፍpwi

ጋ ያዐu.,

ይ

° u reads pki

nu au, 8 add DAE

5 a-m.,

15 Fg

19 m reads &iዋPYi

s treads APMéi

#8 adds ወምንት;

7 im,

5 atu,

a omits.

# reads

9 0CE

7m trans.

read &ፍንpYi

u ም20ራY;

Mm reads Pሱ

ዴተወhnei

ይደ

save that u trans. the two words.

3 read Aችሐኾሲ፡

1 2.

m reads Dያሐጽ&,;

75 8 DRO
u omits together with next seven words.
5 Ffreads AéY::
5 £. Other MSS. read the plural,
= 9 reads &705
5 m, b read ርሕ;
u CY:
“ai omit.
Zg£8-Bn. m,hread “YAP
9 “ት
n# PYEnፍPps
u omits.
5 9, 0b read Ans
=» a-m. m, 8 read ት
52, 0.

መ reads &iዋ1i

9 ፍኖ1;

x ፍSዋYi

u omits.

8-Ox read &£ኖYi

x 3B adds D305
su omits next two words.
5 መ reads &iዋች፡ 9 ፍሪች፡ 5 ፍኖ1፡
Sgt apcFanx.
mgs detfloa9 read RY
u omits.
2 reads hi
aሲ; ፈጂ
Ati
።u omits.
መ mw omits next four words.
5 B reads AE:
ወሐድዴወ፡
3 au,
3 reads hi
su omits,
5 mM, ura read &ኖ]1i / &iዋ1;
5 # reads DflAap;i and omits next word,

198

መጽሐፉ:

ወትሐሕዶዉ፡፡ ወት ዴሰዉ፡።
5. ወችትጻሣዙ፡፡ በ‘/ሕሲና፡ ልብክሙ

|

ወጽ“ዴደደምሰስ፡፥

ኣስመ

XCIV. 4=9.

ነገርዩ፤ ጳጸምልብክመሙ፡፣

ጸጸምር፡ ከመ፤ ያጃክርዎመ፡፣

ክከመ፡ ድኘበፉ፡፡

ሄኛሽ፡

ጥበበ፡

ጋጥጻጌ፤ ሲሰብኣ፡፡

ጳኩዩ፤"

ወሸሱ፡ መካኘን፣ ዚዴትረክብ፣ ሳሂቲ፡
ወ“ዙሰሱ፡ መከራ ዚዩየሐ9ፀ።
6. ጸሲ፡ ሎመ፡
ወዴሣርርዋ፡

ሲ“ኣሰ፡ የሐንጽኛዋ፡ ሲሰሲነመዛ፡ ወሰኘፍዕ;"
ሰጕሕሱነ፡

ኣስመ፤ ፍጠን ዶገኘንሠቱ
ወጸአልቦሙ፡ ሰሳባመ።።
7. ጸሌ፡፡ ሎሙ ሰ“ኣሰ፡ የሕን ጸብተመ፡።
*ኣስመ፤ ኣምዙሉ፡። መሠረተመ፡። ይነነሠቱ

በኃጪጸነ

[ወበሰይፍ፡ ይወድቁ]
ወጻሰሲ፡ ያጠርይያዎ;። ሰወርቅ፤ ወለብፉር
በቫነኔ፡” ፍጦጡህኔ፤ ዴትሕፐኮሱ።
8. ጸሴ፡ ሲኳመ“ ጸብዕልት።። ሓጻስመ፤ ፉበ፡;። ብዕልካመ፡ ተወከልክመሙ፡።
ወ፣ኣምኔ። ብዕአካመ፡ ትወፀጽ፡
ኣጻስመ፡ ሰ“ልዑል፡ ጺተዘክርክምያዎ፤ በመዋዕሰ፤ ብዕልከሙ።
9. ገበርክምዊ፤።

“ሲጽርፈት፡

ወ“ሰንመዛ፤።

ወድልዋ፤ ኮንክመ“ ሰዕሰኘ፡ ክዕወተ፡። ደም
*ወሰዕለተ፡ ጽልመሻ፡” ወ“ሰ“0ለሰት፤ ቫነኔ፤ ዐቢድዶ።”

' mg. # reads Dትhtውi #8 hi ትሕtas u omits. It would perhaps be
better to read Yt; (subjunctive used as imperative).
2 0k. #Z reads
ወችደለው፥ መ ወትደለሲለው፥ 5 5 ወችትደለዉ፤ This last reading is perhaps the best.
te omits next three words.
5 ድ rads በትጻዛዙ፤
ደ ወጻሣዘ፡
። ወትጸንዚ፡
4 reads ሲሲ
‘mhB-gox). #9 d0%b read Rደመሰስi wu YEመሰስi
« g reads
ኣብሰኳመ፡

7 m, B.

ዴንበር

0 B., Zg read Ai

am

read ያ".

5 wu omits next four words.

mi Ahi

5 g reads

Here 1 take £305 At: as a bad

translation Of kakorotety,
1 m reads ti
5 ሊሲ;
=: BD omits.
5 2 omits.
# # omits next Seven Words.
% FL
Other MSS. ሰላም;
5 m prefixes ©.

7 w omits,

0 m reads DE:

mu, BF.

gh 7s read RPEPos

9g Ei

= ay G-Bc/Ioxyap.

u reads AwሠeTrEPa;

# reads PCE:

Dc/oxyap

ሇያጠርዴኛ
= m reads AN;
5 a repeats the next eight words twice.
4 & repeats the next seven words twice, reading ብONeap'i wrongly for OAM in
the first case of its occurrence.

3 w omits next five words.
wm.
Other M55. ፀባይ:

5 g omits.

5 ## reads Wa;

5 a, ak,

B~as read cn;

5e,a omit.

# omits initial ©.

XRCIV: ro—XCY.S
10. ከመዝ።
ኣስመ

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

ጳብእ፡ ጸኔ፡ ወጸየድዐካሙ፡፡

ይገፈትልክመ፡፣

ዘፈጠረዝሙ፡’

ወዲበ፡፡ ድፎቁትኸሙ፡፣ ዚይደከውኘ፡፡ ምሕረት፡፣
ወፈጣሪካመ፡፥ ይትፌሣሕ፡ በሐጕልክካሙ።
11. ወጻድቃኔ፤ ዚጽከካመ“። ዴከወቷቱ፡" በጻማንቱ፡
ሰጋጥጻን፤

199

መዋዕል፤

ጽጻለት፡

ወሰረሴሲዓን።።

XርV. መኒ፤ ዴሁበኒ፡'፡ ለጸዕዶንነዩ፡፣ “ከመ፤ ዴኩና፡፡ ደመና" ማይ
ወ“ኣክዐው፡። ጸንብዕዩ፤ “ከመ፤ ደመና፡” ማይ
ወጸዕርፍ፡ ኣምሕዘ፤፡ ልብዩ።።
2. መፉ፥ ወሀበከመሙ፡። “ከመ ዥግበፉ፡ ጽልጸ፤፡ ወጻከዩ፤።
ወ“ይረክበክመሙ፡።

3. ዚትፍርሁ፡፥

ሰጋጥላጻን፤

ወ“ጻብኪ፤። ዷቤሕመሙ፡?

ሹነኔ።”

ጻ.ፎቃን፤ ጸምጋጥጻን

ሓስመ፤ ካዕበ; ያገብጸመ፡ ኣገዚጸብሔር፡" ውስተ፥ “ኣዴካመ።
ከመ ትግበሩ” ሳዕሴሆሙመ፡ ሸኔ በከመ፤ ፈቀፎክሙ።
4. ጸሴ፤ ሲክሙ፡

ጻሰ፤ ታፓወ7ዜ፡

ገዘታተ፡

ከመ፡።

ጽ“ደትፈትሑ፡።

ወ።ፈውስ፣ ርቷቅ፡። ኣምኔክመ፡ በኣንተ፣ ኃጢጸተ፣ ዚጸከሙ።፡”
5. ጸሴ፤ ሰክሙመ፡ ኣጻሰ፤ ትፈድዩ፥ ኣኩዩ፤ ሰበቢጽክሙመ፡
ኣስመ፡። ትችፈደዩ፡። በከመ፡። ምፃባሪክሙ።
1 u omits next two Words.

2 0 reads DRO

Bዩ.E0;

5 a. 8B reads

ከመ
« mf, B~<Fo. 9,0 read RIYA
2, c/ RIEY Onn;
2 ma omits
next five words,
5 n reads O35
7 #reads PY
s mg» 8B, # reads
ዚጺይከወገክካመ፡

2B

በሕጕለትክሙ፡

5 8. au read HRhi

mgt.

dreads HPhውri

ፀጻሰ1፡

"። omits,

5 2, B~afBin

m reads Ati

"aoe

9 reads hi

9 ጳከ0ው፡
9።tUብnos

1:20.

Other NISS.

9 reads AOEYLt:

# 8 AOንYE

» hi £HSi

1 n reads sti

nu m reads

» 8 trans. after መዋOAN; against

£ omits. au omits next two words.

m omits.

9 Aኩድ:i

0 au prefixes ©.

# omits.

adds RE

but trans. before ROA".
= 5 reals ለበ
m tread Wns

Png Nead, PDE:

af/885 ew read as text

reads ሰይ;

= m reads An:

i
AS
= m reads Ana
s« omits next five words.
=F omits.

/Aahይi

gx Daኩt:

5 au.

EN
7p, Bd,

3 reads ርከብ

Sem,B.
gu prefix.
an trans. before AJDT".
wm, 8. gu read AHA
NF reads AEM hi £30C; u reads AEM hm; and omits to ha inclusive.

=m

(above the line)

8. Z9w omit.

8 fu, g-X, save that wu reads &Ni

ቷ ፈ" ለርሑቅ፡

5 au omits.

army.

#BreadችYEYhi

reads ፈወሰ; hi

X omits next two lines.

as omits, together with next three words.

5 8 reads T&.EE

ድርጋቅi

sw omits.

ያ ፈስ; C4Y;

5 m reads AA;
5 5 adds 0ይ;

e han;

2500

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኝ፡

EP OT

6. ጸሴ፤ ሲሕክመ፡፥ ሲሰማዕች።። ሐስት
ወሲ፡ጻሰ፡ ደደልውዋ፡፡ ሰዐመዛ፤
ሓስመ፡ ፍጠጡን፤ ትኘሐጕኮቡ።፣
7. ጻሴ፡ ሰኳመ“ ሲ’ጋጥጻን፡ ኣስመ፡ ሰጻ.ድቃን፤ ነሰፎ.ፎዎሙ፡፡
aስመ፡ ጸንትመ፥ ትትሟጃጠዉ፡? ወ“ችትሰደዷኗ፡› በ"9ፀመዛ፡
ወ።ሻጸን0;። ባዕሴኽመ፡። ጸርፁች፡ ዚጸሃ።"
XርVI. ተሰፈዉ። “ድቃን ኣስመ፡ ፍጡ፤ኔ፡ ይትህጐኮሴሱ፡'፡ ጋጥጻን፡ ጳምቁኾፎዃመ።
ወሥልጠኝ፡ ይክከውን፡ ሰዝመ“። ዴቤሆመሙ፡" በከመ፡”" ፈቁፎሕሙ።
2. ወ።በዕለት፣ ምንዳቤሆሙመ፡፥ ሰጋጥጻጌ ዴትሴፀሰ፡። ወ“ይደጓነሥመጹ፡። ከመ
ጸንስርቫ፡
“ኣሰ ዚጸክሙ፡።
ወፈድፋደ ኣም ጸውስት፡።” ይከውን፤ ምጽላልክሙ፡።
ወችትዐርፐ፥

ወ።ችበውጵ፡።

በገድ

ምፎር፡

ወበንቅኝታች፣ ኩዙሕ፤ ሰንሰም፡ ከመ፡ ሂሑ፡” ኣምቐ.ድፎመ፤ ዓማፀሮን፤”
ወ።ዴንዕኩ” ደቤሕመ“” ወዴበኽዩ፤። ጴደሪት'።።
3. ተወጸጌንትመሙብ፤ ዚጺቾፍርሁ፡ ኣሰ፡ ሐመምኸሙ፡
ሓስመ፡። ፈውስ፤ ይከወውገከሙ፡”
ወብርሃን

ወቃለ

ብሩህ”

ዕረፍ

ያበርህ፤

ሲኳመ“

ትሰምፁ፡።

if omits,
n reads ሲ.

ኳምስሰማይ።

sap, B~B read ሰማOYYi
? i reads PEAT;

5 u omits next three words.
9 (zu) read ት”.
7

#2 omits.
Fh omit,

s mu omits next nine words.
° Al MSS. but Z which reads ‘Tas
1 All MSS.
but Zh a which read YN£&i 75 trans. YY" and ት".
2p. mg read A.
Other MSS. AAS
=e. Other MSS. &AY0i
"9,2. Other MSS. read QA0".
“Fm. g reads WAU 7! 5 HAP
5 fu read Tፈhi
"omits. wu omits
next five words after $2:
7 ኖክ ተሩ ወምልጣ
5 wu omit.
1» s# reads
ደቤከመ፡

nF, ge, mg/ read hai

e reads Hho;

wu omits together with next

word.
1 9 omits.
= w reads YY".
four words and @©.
4 g reads AA HRP
74 eh read PRA
Sey RA.

yu read PYIN'E: wu omits next
5 0 reas በውሰት
oy
u omits together with next word.

ኘ

5 7 reads 04.

reads

words.
ቅፎሆመ፥

ት በው;

07 8-X.,

5 a,

B reads Th;

2 reads Phi

መፃ ዴቤሆሙ

5h.

above the line 00s
5 rg£
= mw Omits next two words and ©.

next four words.

#r,8.

5

90M:

x 0X

ZFmg read hi

#u omits next five

UB
9,8 add hi

m reads &E".
Ben SዴSJYI
» g reads naps
55 sé Omits,

mg# read Yሰm0p;

Teas
m adds

“en REt".
5 sé Omits

XCVI, ATXCVIH, 2.

መጽሐፈ’

ህኖ

901

4. ጸሴ፡ ሲክመ። ጋኃጥጻን፤ ጳስመ፡ ብዕልከሙ፡፡ ያመስሰኸሙ፡ "ጻ.ፎቃ፤፡
ወልብክመ፡፡ ዴዘልፈኻሙ፡፡’ ከመ፡ ጋጥጻን፡ ጸንትመሙ፡
ወዝንቱ ነ1ር፡; “ይክውን፡ ደቤኳመ፡፡ ሰማዕት፡ ሰ“ተዝኻካር፡ ኣኩያን።፣
5. ጸሴ፡ ሰከመ“ ሓጻሰ፡ ትበልዑ፥ ሥብጨሐ፡ ስርናዶድ፡

ወችሰትዩ፤ ተ ጋዴሰ፤ ሥርወ፡፣ 1ቅዕ፡ተ
ወትክከይድዎመሙመ

ሰትኙታን፡

በኃይእከሙ፡፡፡

6. ጸሴ፤ ሰከመ“ ጻሰሲ፡ ትሰትዩ ማዩ “በዙ ፉዜ፡።
ሓስመ፡ ትትፈደዩ’ ፍጠ; “"ወሻትዊድጵ፡ ወጦሣናብሰ፡"
ኣስመ፡ ሕደገመ፡ ነቅዐ; ሕዴዶወች።
7. ጸሴ፡ ሲኳመ“

ኣሲ: ትገብኗ፡

ትዝሣሪ፡፡ ይከውን፤ ፈቤካመሙመ
8. ጸሲሴ፡ ለክመ“

ዐመዛባ፡ ወኮወሐሱ"

ወጽርፈሂ፤

ለኣጻከድ።

ጋያሳን;" ጻሰ፡;። በጋድል፡"

ትዅኩርዕዎ፡”

ሲ“ጻ.ድሕ።

ሓስመ፡። ትመጽኣ፡ 0ዕሲት፤ ሕኾልከሙ፡
በኣማንቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ድይመጽል፡። “ሰጻ.ድቃን፡ መዋዕል፡። “ብዙጋኃኘ፡፥ ወቕራት፣።
በዕሰ1፡ ሹኔ፡ ዚጸካሙ፡።
XVII. ትጸመኔ; ጻድቃን ኣስመ፤ ሰጽኣሰት፡ ዴክውፉ፤ ጋጥጻን፣።
ወ“ ዴትሕቱኮሱ፡

በዕለ

ዓመዛ።

2. ኣሙረ፡;። ይክውን፡ ሰከመ“ ጳስመ፡ ልዑሁል፡ ድዜክር፡ ሐጕኮለካመሙ፡።
ወደትፌፊሥመሑ፡ “መሳኣኳኳተ፡ ሰማዴ፡” ደበ፡ ሕኾሰ፤ ዚጸዝሙ።፡

1 # reads Ai # adds A;
a, BoBy read ይመስለ
Fm, B4XY read HAG

ይከውክመ፥

5!

2 au omits next three words.
< 9 reads .ድ2ን፡ ወጸልብክሙመ፡ ዘ.

# omits next three words and following ©.

መያሣ read YHnሪ: (Ci) Aኩያት፤

g reads JENA: ani

ሥመር:

for hb" 25 ‘from

10; ሐደወትi

every

8 "nei ኪት

# reads

su trans.

Obelized words (following order in 9) = ioxiv nyils

Bits= ግp'y ኮy ty corrupt (2) for npn

5 ## omits, fF reads Anos

5 B-Boy,
2 5 BB,

iw = « of spiced wine”

0 This phrase seems corrupt,
fountain

used

« omits next two words.

here metaphorically

n mg omit.

Cf. Cant. viii, 2.

It = ny-253 corrupt (2)
as opposed

to the

15 3 trans. before ትት".

5 au omits. mg/ omit the © before YYE". # reads ችት. ©.
Dey
Yi
5 u omits next five words. 9 puts this and the next word in nom.

Feadl
mg

read THC:
7a reads YA: su omits.
5 omits.
15 a omits.
20 Ho Fa
B~ac/B8 save that #, B~a/h8 read "hp; # reads ያርህዎ፤ 9 ዴኩርህZ: < YCYOZ:
0b read E92]: uy;
u omits next four words.
= ፀ/ read ANN:
oN
af BR Inopya,b read RRR Jcgeix RA:
= u trans. For መዋO0A; £ reads "0A;
b8. Sog but in acc. ms reads ብዙ; O2ራYi 9 ብW»Y; 2ራYi # omits.
Su
omits next ten Words.
7 fomits.,
# 9g reads Ae
#9, af read han
na, mn,

BH read መAላAYY
Dd

909

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

XCVIL. 3=9.

3. መምንተ፡ ትጋበፉ፡ ሀለወዝመ፡፡፣ ጋጥጻን
ወ“ጸይቴ፡ ትኮይዩ፡፡ በ“ይኣቲ፡ ዕሰነ፡ ኣንተ ችነኔ፡
ሶበ፡ ትሰምዐ፡ ቃሰ፡ ጸሎተመሙ፡ ሰጻ.ፎቃን።
4. ወጸንትመ፡፣ ትክከውኒ፡፣ ከማሆሙ
ኣሰ; ሰማዕት፤ ይከውን፡" ደቤሆመሙ፡” ዝንቱ; ኔገር
ሱቱ”

ኮንክሙ"

5. ወ“በኣማንቱ፡

ሰጋጥጻን።

መየዕል፡'፡ ትበጽሣ፡ ጸሎተመሙ፡ ሰ“ቅዲሳን፡" ሣበ፡ ኣግዚኣ፡።

ወለኻመ፡" ይበጽሕ፡” መዋዕለ; ቫነኔ“ክሙ።፡"
6. ወ።ዴጎንበብ፡። “ዙሉ ነገረ፡። ዓመባክመሙ፡።” ቅፎመ፤
ወዴድትኘኝፈር፡ ገጽኸመ፡

ወ።“ድገ.ፎፍ፡። ሹሉ

ፀቢዶ፡።

ቅዱስ፡።

ትኘግባረ፡;” “ዘጸን0፤ በ"ዓመዛ።

7. ጸሌ፡ ሰካመ
ኣሰሲ;። ዝክሮሙመ

ጋጥጻኘን፤ ኣሰለ፥ ማጻክሰ;።
ኣጳኩይ;። ዲደቤዝሙ

8. ጸሌ፡ ለክመ“።

ኣሰ፡ ታጠርዩ፡።

በሕር፡ ወኗበ፡ የብስ፡

“ብፉረ፡ ወወርቁ፡።

ዘጺኮሃ፤

በጽ.ፎቅ፡ ወትብሱ፡

ብዕልሃ፡። ብዕሰ፡። ወከኮ፤፡ ሰ፤፡ ንዋዶ፤”
ወጸጥረይ፤ ሹችሉ፤ ዘፈቅፎንነ።"
0. ወዴኣጻዜ፤፡

ንግበር"

ዘ*ኘሰይ፤።

ኣስመ ብፉረ፡ ጸስተጋባኣ፤፡
ወመላa ጦዛIብL# hoi
ወብዙሣ፡"

“ሕራሰ1፡

ማE;

ጸብያቲ፤።"

i mh B-afhiROy,aD. gu, aFhihoy,ab read YI:
= mu read UN;
2 mf read APE:
“su adds JAY
° ። reads 0AYi
m,n append ሰ.
፣ 29#.
Other MSS. read &Thnውri
* u omits next four words,
mg read £hውri which £ trans. before preceding word.

° / reads AN:
#8,
i BA Other NIRSSe
1 # a5 ቱፉ
2 au omits.

ደቤክከመ፡
15 # reads AYE:
5 0 reads "Yi
15 adds ትመጽል፤ ወ.
7, a7hRDD. Other MSS. read RE2Y:

read AJHLRብሔC: / aፃዚR፡ መናፍስት፥፣
5 reags Ans ያFወhmi
ድብጻሣ፡ ። ወደበ ጽጸክመሙመ፡ ።,ረ om.
= a reads YC: 8 RIYA:
ቫዙሉ፡

ያ ቫሉ ነገረ፡

። ነገረ፤

ሪ። ነገርዝመሙመ፡

which extends to cviii. io.

5 # reads Yh

5

7 ¢ (over erasure) 9,

SF. # omits. miu, B read Wt;
0
reads 0 only, and # omits.
Hac ©.
5 reads At:
TF, Bh trans.
three words.

5 a reads HOod:
m0,

9 reads in nom.
5 2 reads JP

8 efnp
reads
reads

21 Here begins Z

/u, B-na read Dቐዱስ፡

reads $53;

”
=

a ወን;

mn,8 YEE:

SF
m,8F read YC:
uF omit,
nF reads በማ".
5 2 omits, m adds
a 2 repeats.
5 0p read ZፓOር&;
5 mn reads AAA:
5 Fu omit. w# omits next
mau omits next SiX Words.
“ድ ads ዙሉ

“ያ,8. ድ read Jድዴል 9 ፈደ
3 a omits next five words.
4 2 only.
All other MSS. read pha;
5. ያ,9 read ብዙ;
ብዙኃት 5/5 5-5 ብዙሣ፡
Sg, (save that ,2 reads ብያት).

9

8 read Jረስ1፡ ጸብ

= ብያ" ሐረስ

XCVIL, io—XCVIIHL. 4.

10. phi

ማይ:

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛና:

9039

ይዴውዳሣዝ: ሕሰነሕሙመ፡

ኣስመ ዚዴነብር፡ “ሰክመ ብዕል ጸባ; ፍጠ፡ የ0ር7፡ ኣምኔክሙመ፡፡
ሓስመ፡፡ ዙሉ፡፡ በዐመዛ፤ ጸጥረዴክካመሙ፡፣
ወጸንትመ፡ ሰመርገም፤ ፀቢዴ፤ 1ችወሀቡ፡፣
XCVIII. ወይaዜi A ኣምወል፡’ ሲመ“ ሰጠቢባኝ፡ ወለ"ቋብዳ፡
ሓኣስመ፤ ብዙ" ትሬኣጻዩ፤ ዷበ;። ምዶር።፣
2. ኣስመ፡። መኔ ትወ.ድፎዩ፡ ሳዕሴክመ፡ ጸንቸመ፡ “0 ደው፡፥ ፈፎፉዶደ፡" ጸምጸንስነ፡
ወግብረ፡፡

ፈ.ፎፉደ፤ ኣም.ፎንኘል፤"፣

በ"መንኘሥት፣

ወበዕበዶ፡"

ወበ“"ሥልጣን

ወበ።ብፉር፡። ወወርቅ፣፤ ወጃሳት፡
ወብር፡ ወ።መባልዕት፡ ከመ፤ ማይደ፤ ይትክከዐፀዉ።።
3. በጻንተዝ፡።”

“ችት ምህርተ፡

ወጥበበ;

ጸልቦሙመ፡

“ወቦቱ; ዴትሕኾቡ። ሣቡረ፤ ምስሰ፡ ንዋያቲሆሙ፡
ወምስለ ሹሱ፥ ስብሐተመ፡፥ ወካብሮመሙ፡።
ወበ።”ጽኣለኝ፣ ወበ“"ቁትል፡ ወበ።ንዴት;። ዐፀቢድ፡
ቸችትወደደ፡። መንፈሰሙ፡። “ሠጦብች፣ ኣተ ኣሳት።።
4. መሕልኩ፡።

ሲከመ፡

ጋጥጻ]ን፡ ከመ፡።

ኮኔ;

“.ደብር፡ ገብረ፡።

1 dg reads han; # omits next eight words through hmt.,
u# ብO0AMሮs # omits next four words.
ZF reads AA;

° g reads hi

°Fgu,m omit.

7

° su reads ብnao; AOA;
#7 trans. after next word.

omits next four words.

? ድ reads ምል

0 mB

B~a, F,gg# read AA.

52 wu, BbcX read Xf:

c prefixes ©.

w omits next four Words.

€ omits next three words through hmt.,

9 adds AAA]:

am.

s 9 reads YHOU:
1 F reads ብWS;

™ a reads AH:

7 trans.

1s m reads Dኝ4te;

ፃ ወግብር፡ ። ግብረ፡
" /5, 8-% add በመንኘል፤ wከicክ is a ox nulla.
= F reads 0.
Fm, 8. 2 reads 0:
9 በ0በ£i / ወለO0ይ: # omits.
5 ru read ©.
60. # omits next four words.
1,8. Zmgiread ©.
252 m Omits next Word.
nu next three words.
= 9 reads pf.
abcehsno0. So dg save that it prefixes H.

aFRIXa read RYhO®;i
'ድ reads ትምህርት ወጥበበ፡

u omits next two words.
5 #,dny prefixm.
gm.
ያ ትምህርት፤ ጥበብ፡
። ወጥበብ፡ 5 ቸምህርት፡ ወጥበብ
reads hE; ተል:
# reads ደትሐPA; and trans. before ወጥበብ;

7 Fmgn 8.
ew omits next three words.
mm reads DA. Zu.

= aw omits,
3 F9,. Zmread ©. / OA.
1 mu read DAN.
55 # omits next SiX Words.

omits.
5m

prefix ©. Bcx read YO’.
Here we have evidence of m following 2 when it is
Wrong and not 2. See also note 29%
1 mg omit next three words.
i == €tS3
TI]v Kdutvoy To vpds of Matt. xiii, 42, 5o (Beer).
5 F omits.
7 pb reads AN;
=m 8, # reads ብር: JOC: s ደብረ; ገበር; 7 ደብረ; 7ብረ;i = ደበር; ወረ; 1ብeረ;

204

መጽጠሐፈፉ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

XCVIHL. 4-15.

ወጺዴደክውን፡፡ ወጺወፃር፡፡ ሲ'ብኣጻሲት፣ ጸመት፣፣
ክመ:

ኃጢጸተኒ፡፡

ዚጺተፈነወገ፡ ሄበ፡ ምድር

ጸሳ፡፡ ሰብኣ ኣምርጳሶሙ፡፡ ፈጠርኛኞ፡፣
ወ’ሰመርገም፡ ዐቢይ ይክከውፉ፤ ኣሰ፤ ገብርዋ።
5. ጦምካነት፡'" ሲብኣሲት፣ ተውህበት
ጸባ፤ በኣንት፡ ፃብረ፤ ኣዴሃ፡ ትመውት “ዘኣንበለ፡ ውድ
6. መሐልኩ ሰኳመ፡፥ ጋጥጻን፡ በቐዱስ፡ ዐቢዶ፤።
ሓስመ፡ ዙሱ;። ንብርካመ፡ ጳኩይደ፡ ክሠት፡፡። ውኣኳቲቱ፡'፡ በሰማያት
ወጸልብከሙ፡" “2ብረ፡ ፃፍ0;"" “ዲህ; ወጺሣቡጸ።"
7. “ወጺታምስሱ፤ በመንፈስክመሙመ፡፡ ወጺት'በሱ፡፥ በአብክመ ኣስመ፡ ጺታጸምፉ፡” ወጺትፌኣዩ፡።
“ሹሱ፡ ኃጢጸት፡። በሰማይዴ፤ ዴጻሐሕፍ፡። ህሉ፡። በዙሰ፡ ዕሰለነ፡። በቅፎጃሆ፡ ሰለልሁል።።
8. ጳምይዴኣዜ፡ ታጸምፉ፡ ኣስመ፡ ዙሰ፥ ፃፍዕካመ፡ ዘትገፍዑ፡። ዴጻጸጻሐሕፍ፡ በዙሉ ዕለት
*ኣስከ፡ ዕሰተ፡። ቫዜ’“ካሙ፡፡
9. ጸሴ፡ ሰክመ“ ጸብዳን፡ ኣስመ፡ ሕቡ
በኣበ.ፎኽመሙመ፡
ወሰጠቢበን፡።” ትረስዕዎመሙመ፡።” ወ።ሠና ዴት፡። ጽዚይረሕበካሙ።።
10. ወድይኣዜኔ፡ ጸጻምፉ፡
ከመ፡ ድልዋን፡። ጸንትመሣ ሰዕሰት፡። “ሕጕል፡ ወ“ዚቸተሰፈዉ፡። ከመ ትሕየዉ፡።” ጋጥጻን፡
ጸባ፡። ተሐሕውፉ፡። ወትመውቱ"
ኣስመ፤ ጸ።ታጸምፉ፡። ቤዛ“ ጻስመ፡“። ተደለውክመ፡

7 # omits.
S208
2 reads D7¢i mn» pAiRውIC: 9u OጺDIei
Zu read Ami
9 Ry:
‘2 prefixes ©. a reads phyy

nt.
° a omits.

ZF reads AA;

0 7, Bw.

7 au omits next four words.

8,

omit,

2 readsA.

Zn, w read ምnlYi
"a-g,aifiw. Oher MSS, AEደEY:i
= m prefixes A
and adds ሰብኣ፤
5 Fg
mB
read 0ቢይi ። ወበYቢEi # omits next
Seven words.

Aሰi ብni
ደሣ፤
stead.

5 m prefixes 0.

“98.

m trans.

, 8 ከዱን ወጺሣቡል፡
a g omits.
522.

£Xጽሐፍ፡

5 sr omits.

። Ii

"ama.

7 iu reads

u reads

50 au omits next three words, and reads Map; in their
Other MSS. tN: JAY
SFmbB.
gu read

u omits next three words.

°° aw omits next seven words.

5 Fm prefix ©.

# reads 3&0;

7

4 9 reads AD;

,n omit,

5 mw reads H.

= e adds ጻስከ፡ 0ሲኝ፣
m adds Pini

©.

5 m reads Mቢበንii
su omits with next ten words. Z omits initial ©.
ibe,
reads ትርስበዎመ፡፥
መ ጴትጸምርዎመ፡ (sic). 9 ጴቸርዕይዎመሙመ፡
ዞ 8-9» ጺትበምዕዎመሙመ፡

apAaትስም".
9 #reads ሠናይት: Other MSS. ሠናይi
= 0 reads &ትY'é",
3 e rads መድልእዋ
4 Z rሩads AOA; cg በ0ለY፡
5 ድ rads ሐኾእኻመሙ፡
5 መ reads ጺጴተሰፈ፣ /።, 5 ጴት ቤፈዉ፡
7 cvwya read ተሐይ
5 ትሕይዉ፡
au omits next three words.
5 reads AM
ማሣ ያያያ፣eaባ ትሕውፉ፥ ያ ትጸምፉ
ae omits next eight words.

Sgsm8.

g reads 0H:

um, 8B, Fg

01; 0H:

omit,

“5,8.

52g.

§ reads ©.

Other M55. TA

mg omit,

KCN

XCIEX

ሲ'ዕሰተ፡

ቫኔኔ፡

2

ዐባዶ።

መጽሐፈ፡
ሰዕሰተ።

ምንዳቤ፡

ዛኛኻ፡
ወኝሣር፡

205
ዐፀቢድ፡፡

ለመንፈስክሙ፡።

il.

ጸሴ፤ ሲኳሙ፡፡ ፃዙፋነ፡ ልብ፡፡ ሓኣሰ። ችገብፉ። ኣኩየ፤ ወ“ትበልዑ፡ ደመ’ አምጸይዴቱ፡
ጸንትመሙ፡፥ ትበልዑ በሠና ይ፤ ወትሰትዩ፣ ወትጸኘቡ፡፡› ጸስመ፤ ኣም
ሠናይ፡" ዘጸፈ.ፎፈደ
ሓግዚኣ፡። ልዑል፡ ደበ; ምድር፡ ወ“ጸዘልብክመ፡ ሰሳመ።።
12. ጸሴ፤ ሰለክመ“”" ልጻሰ፡
ታፈቅርኛ፡፡ ሲ“ፃብረ፡። ዓመባ፤ ሰምንት ሰኳክሙመ፡። ትሴፈውያዎ፡” ለሠናይ፤” ጸኣምኗ፡ ከመ፡
ሀሰወከመሙ፡፥ ትትወሀበ፡” በኣዴሆመ፡። ሰጻፎቃን። ወይመትፉ፥ ሕሳሰውዷጂክመሙ፡። ወዴቁች
ሱኸመ። ወጺይምሕፉሕሙ።።”
139. ጸሴ፡ ሰክመ፥ ኣሰ፡ ትትፌሥመሑ፡ በምንዳቤሆመሙ፡
ሰጻፎቃኘ፡።

ኣስመ፤ መቃብር፡

ጺዴደትክረዶ፡። ሲኸሙ።

14. ጸሴ፡ ሰሲካሙ፡ ጳሰ፡ ተቤጥሱቡ፡።

ኔ]ገረ; ጻድቃን ኣስመ፤ ጽይከውን፤ ሲሰካመ“ ተስፋ፡ ሐዴወት።
15. ጸሴ፤ ሰክመ“፡ ኣሰ፡
ችጽሕፉ፡ *ነገረ፤ ሕሰ” ወነገረ፡ ረሲዓን” ኣስመ፡ “ውኣጻተመ፡፥ ይጽሕፉ” ሕሰተመ፡። ከመ
ዶስምፁ፡። ወዴይርሥዕዎ፡። ሰባዕ.ፎ፡;። ወጺይክከውን፡ ሎመ፡” ሰሳባም፡። *ጸሳ፡ ሞተ፡። ይደመውቲቱ፡።
ፍጠን፡”

XCIX.,

ጸሌ፡

ጓቤብሑ፡።” ወ“ታክብፉ፡"

1 fu read 0.
+ f reads Oi

ሲመ”

ኣሰሲ፡“።

ችገብፉ፥።

ትሕጐኮልኳሙ፡” ወጸልብካመሙ፡።

2 m reads 0ቢ&;

three times.

? 8. መሄ

st8.

5 FZ9ፉ
mg

words,

sam.

im, B read ሰላም;

m8 read AHA
15 m reads Zt

ሐሰ
2. “ጸሴ፡

mB prefix ©.

sw reads በ0AY:;

° 7m reads raw

A.

read 1".

in ss omits.

dg omits.

ያ ዶበልዑ፣ ደመ

tu Omits next seven

m reads H.

#, cox

9 omits.

m repeats AA £1;

read ዴበልዕዎ፤ (“ዎሙ ።) ሲደም፡

a reads Y0A0: and omits next four words.

ወሲ'ሣኝገረ፡

“ሕይዴወት፣ ሠና ዴተ።"

u omits together with next word.

7 i omits next two words + ©.

ርስዓናት፡።

"pCP;

HT
7 gu, nu omit,

15 2 trans, after ትፈ". F adds AAG 5 hoi au omits.
9 am.
Im, read
HYሰፈውያ; ("ዋ;in). # reads ትbፈs and omits next four words. B~n read Tቤፈውዋ:
nag, Jcgpnw.

ቸትወሀብ

gu omit.

§-Bcdp read ASN:

= 0, read QAP

4 m, Fh read “Poi

au omits.

= n omits next four words.

au prefixes ©.

m reads

5 wu omits next four words.
a=,

8 (save that a omits &).

ያ, read ዴትረጸይ፡
7 ያድ. መ reads ታቤጥቡ፡ 9/።, 8 read ታበጥሰ፡
“ያ,0
read ሐሰት: # omits next six words.
5 m reads 705
2 adds AንE:
መ ኖ reads ውAቲ፡ ይጽሕፍ
1 mm omits.
5 a. B~gy read ዴስም0ዋi go»
ዴድሰምዕ፣፡
5 Fg/w.
leaves the space vacant.
m reads £eስ0pi
g-dy
ዚዴደርስዕኛ፣ 405 ወጺይረ".
= a. 8 reads AA:
a, 5 omit, # adds AOE:
50 B~h 0. af read ሰሳ: 0 ሰሳመ፡ ዓሲም
27 9 reads ©. # AA:
5 Z adds ለሱ
መህ add ወዚዴኾኮኒፎቲ፡
nag, gy, #2, 8-45 read trp
a, B reads

ሰሲኣሰ፡

= mi

a~mh 8 read &Y".

5».

„ድ reads Ch0ei

mw» 8 CN0ፍ1

eu omits.
# ## omits next three Words.
5, Other MSS. read ይ".
reads LIA; Other M55. Phብ።
7 g reads hi
“ig omits.

PU
#9

(save that 9 trans.), a&%i. # reads hይወችi ሠናይት: mn, bch
en hE we".
ox8 ስዴወሻi ሠናድትi ። ሠ 1

ws £15

hድወYi

መ

ኣለ።

ይቐልጥዎመ፡’

ሰሣገራኘ፥

RCT eas

ሄዛኖኻ፡

መጽሕፈ:፡

206

ርትዕ።

ወ።ሥርዐ1፡፡

ጻን1፣

ሰንነሰም፡

ወዴፌሬስዩ፥ ርኣስሙመ፡ ዘጺኮኔ [:ኃጥጻ;]፣ ዷበ፡ ምድር፡ ሀሰዉ፡፥ ይነከየዱ።፡

የንልጪ፡

3. በጸማንቱ

መዋዕል፡ ተደለሰዉ፡ .ፎቃን፤ ከመ፡ ትን’ ጸሎግጊክመሙመ፡”" በተዝካር፡" ወ“ጸገብርዎመሙመ፡
ስማዕት፡ በቅፎመ፡ መሳኣሕት፥ ከመ፡ ያንብርዎሙመ፡። ለ“ጋጢጸት፡“ ጋኃጥጻን፤፣ በቅድመ፡
ልሁል፤ ሰተዝካር።።
4. በኣማንቱ፡፡ መዋዕል፡ ዶችሀወኩ፡" ጸሕዛብ፡ ወደገገመዙ፡
ጸዝማዶደ፡ ጸሕዛብ፡፡ በዕለኝ፡” ኣንጌ፡፡ ሕጕል።=”
5. ወበኣማንቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ኣሰ፡ ይጴነቡ፡
ድደወዕሯ፡። ወይመሥመጠጡ፡ ደቱዩቁሙመ፡ ወዴገፎፍዎመሙ፡። ወኣምኔሆመሙመ፡። ዴፎህፁ፡” ውቡድመሙ፡
ወኣጻንዘ፡

ዴይጠብዉ፡።

“ይገድፍዎመሙመ፡።

በደዩቁመ፡።”

ወጸ“"ዴይገብጽ፡

ገቤሆመ“፡

ወጺይም

ሕርዎመ፥ ሰፍቁራኒሆሙ፡፡
6. ወ።ኻዕበ፡ ጸሃ፤ ኣምሕል፡ ሰከመ“ ሰጋጥጻን፡ ኣስመ፡
ሲ“0ለት፡። ደም፡ ዘጺዩሀ.ፎኣ፡። ተደሰወኝ፥ ጋጢጸት።”
7. ወኣለ፡;። ዴሰስፃዲጁ፤ ሰጻብን፡
ወኣሰ፡።

ዴደገስልፉ፡

1 Fm.

ሰኣሰ፡

ምስሰ።።

ዘ"ወርቅ፡

g/u, BA; nav;

ያመ.

eትዊATTዋI
read CON

ወ“ዘ“"ብፉር፡

ወዘዕፀ;"

ss repeats the phrase.

ፀ reads ዴቐልእጥዎ፤

/ ትዌልጥዎ፤

ወ“ዘ“ልሕገ፣

ወጻሰ፤።

‘Sa=rm,B.,

Fm read

። ዴቐጥ፤፡

6- ቸቐልጥዎ፤፡

“au omits.
? py read EY; wu omits next eleven words.
Sg,D5%
7A wrong gloss. The text refers to the practice of uncircumcision.

5 u adds YIN; before this word. dg reads £1".
° £ reads ££}. 9 omits.
0 # reads RNJLVPao
1 9 reads በትY.E£Ai # omits next eleven words.
Rk
m9 read Rንበርዎመ“፥ 8-95 ጸንበርኸምዎመ፡ 45 ጸንበርኸዎመሙ፡
Ferny. # reads
fበውጻዎን፡ 8 ያብርዎ፤ though in #8 the ¥ is practically erased and in #5 it is over
an erasure.
4 2, bcx read SLAY:
a JAY: 3A;
Z reads AYHAረ: s YHne:
15 J prefixes @©.
758,
ትፕውሀውኩ፡

5 PB.

amy

read iN

m ARYA

with next two words.
መ reads ሐቱል፡ ዘጋጢጸት፡

5 2 omits.
/። ሕኾሰለ፤ »".

ወደገድሩ;

8 adds A (inomits) Eps

05 ወደገድፍዎ፤

m5 omits.
vag.
a~r# read YU
s
1A:

4 omits together

5 F9ሃu read 0A
9 ሕ" ንጥጻን
= 9 omits.

Fp,
3 mw reads

# omits next three words +.

24 10 y omit the initial ©. a omits the word.
Sarg.
# reads £AU0: 2
ድሀ
25 » reads te
5 D reads ድብ:
# omits next two words.

5

reads RIE;

a go FBn.

3 Fg.

Other MSS. omit.

mg! read tps

= wu, dg omit.

8 omits.

5 # reads ©.

5 en add Oወትi

™ su omits

next two Words.
® 1s this a loose rendering of duerayonoiar Lert. De Jdo/.
iv above has penitentia which may be corrupt for impenitentia.
ig IN
other MSS. read ©. Lhe context requires some such reading since it is rather
a four de Force to render the following AA; as « and others.” Moreover, Tert. De
Jdol. iv gus servitis .. . ef gus support 9.
Y wu adds here from next line the clause

ወሰ; ድሰፃዲ

5 b omits,

0 Fu, e omit.

u mb e read 000:

b omits next two words.
ef/hn AAA;
xD.

wy read 0.

ch AAG

8 reads HOO:

X omits next word.

» AAA;

5 w, e omit.

sw omits with next five words.

5 eo0p omit.

5 g reads AAA;

XCIX, y=I3.

መጽሐፈ:

ይሰኘዲ፡ ነፍሳት
ረፎጴተ፡

907

ጳዙያት፡፡ ወ’ጸጋንንት፡ ወሲ“ሹቡ፥ ጣዖፆት፡፡ |ወ|“"ጴጺበተምሃር። ወ“ዙሎ፡፣

ይረካበ፡፣

ወ“ይጴሰሰ

ዛኛካ፡

ጳምኔሆሙ፡፡

ጸዕይንቲሆመሙመ

ዴድረስሁፁ፡። ወ።ደፈርሁ፡፡

8.

ወጦዴደትረስዑ፡’

በጻንት፡

ልቦመ፡

ወ“በርጳጻዩ፡።

ሐልሞሙ።።

9. ቦሙ

ፃብሮመ፡

በሐሰነ፡።

ገብሩ፡”"

ለጻብን፡

በ"ፍርሃት፣

ጳጻስመ፡

ዙሉ"

ኣበደ፡

ልቦሙ

ወ።ሰኘገፉ፡”

ወደችሕኾሰ፡ በምዕር።
10. ወበጻኣማንቱ፡ መዋዕል፡ ብፁንን፣ ሎሙ” ኣሰ፡ ይትሟጠጪዉ።
ነገረ;= ጥበብ፡። ወ“ያጸምርዎን;።
ወ“ዴይገብርዎን፡”
ሰ“ፍናዋት፡። ልሁል፡ ወየሐውፉ፡
በፍኖተ “ጽፎቁ፡ ዚጸሆሁ፡።” ወጺዴዶረስፁ፡” ምስለ ኣሰ ዴረስፁ፡ ኣስመ፤ ጳሙንቱ፡ ድፎሣኒ።።
11. ጸሴ፡ ሰክመ፡፥ ጻሰ፤ ትሰፍሕዋ፣።

12.

ጸሌ፡

ተያጸምፉ;”።

ኣጻሰ፡

ችገብርዋ፡።”

ደበ

ምፎር፡

ጻስመ፤

1 2 reads OS&NYi
hesitation.
to xiv. 0.

ሲ“ኣጻክድ፡። ለቢጽክሙ

“ሰካመ፡፥

ቦቱ

ኣስመ፡።

ሰ“መስፈርተ፡።

“ኃጋጢጸነ፣

ዶትቹፎጵ።"

13.

በሲጾል፡ ትችዋተሱ።።

ወጕሕሴገ፡

ኣሴ

ወጻሰ፡።

ሲክከመ፥

። 1 have retained the above reading of £m

ልሲ“

with some

It is supported by ,Z#/which read Aris
But this reading may be due
On the other hand the smfamsies of Tertullian suggests CWA; as in

aceFhi8n or CWAY; a5 in bd/oxya 0.
5m, g read DA. » omits.
+ reads
ጣዖፆኝ፡ ። ሹሎመ፥ ጣዖታት
ድ. „ያ reads ሲተምሀር፡ 2 ጴበችምህርት፤ = Tet.
(loc. cit.) non secundum scientiam. So u save that it omits &. m reads A
በምወራማት'; and so also 8 save that it omits R.
2. Other MSS. Ws save
zu which omits.
two

words,

iuvenietis ab iis.

three words.

5,8,

7120.
5 Emended

wu reads AረEዜYi

Other MSS. ረFዜትi

from

Ct. Tet. loc. cit. nullum

2 a omits,

Yeni

9 adds &.

1 a, B~ag0y read ዴዴሲሳ፡

m reads በራAi

au omits next six words.

9

CA:

# omits next
auxilium

0 w reads £eስ0; and omits next

ag0ya,9 ድል

/ RCA

» £ reads Yes

“£9.

= . reads በጻ

Other M55. Rሕላሞ

0g reads ፈርሁ

Since a,/50 read Wt; it is possible that "IA; is corrupt for TIA;
fixes.
dfx read AIA; See note 17.
» gf read N75

1 agcdepg/n

5 ae pre= ru omit.

= # reads Rትnas
= # reads በylei
u omits next four words.
2, Fm
read PRCT;
So also adi8iuo,ay save that they read fA. 9 reads ACP:
and so also DceFBX save that they read $A.
25 g reads ገብር;
a “በር;
7 mg read &S@i
a &71;
25 fu read በፍeዋች;
ጋ a, #, 8 read REY;
0 9 reads R£eስ0i here and the third word later. 2 omits next three words through

hmt. wu omits next five words.
x wu prefixes ©.
5a-g, 9 reads Ari 8 AH
= mw omits.
0

reads ri

ሰሰ; ይገብ".

5 Z reads JPA]; DAW!
# reads ri

5am ft,

። JLRS FY;

mt 8-5 መር;

5 tመርCዋ:i

sense or forms a parallel to the preceding verb.
1 ድቐድጵ፣ ያ ይትወድፎክ፡፥ ።, (/)) ይትዌደቡሱ፡

= 2 reads ተሰፈውዋi 9 YሰፍhZ:
5 ድ ad ይትቁ". መ ትቁትሱ፡
m reads መpweti

5, 5-5 መሠረ

and omits next three words.

29,

None of these words gives a good

0 9/0 BH. # rads ይወድ
" = ads ትኮፎጵ፡

908

መጽሐፈ፡

ቫነፎቁ፡ ጸብያሂካመ፡

ህኛ፡

በጻማ፣ በ0.ፎ፡፡ ወዙ

ጻብሰኳመ፡፣ ከመ፡፡ ጽልብካመ፡

ሰሳመ።"

XCIX, I3—C. 3.

መንፎቁሙ፡፡

ፃንፉል፡

14. ጸሴ፡ ሎመ“" ኣሲ;

ወ’ልጻብሃ፡ ጋጢጸት"

ይሜጃንኒ;።

መስፈርተ"

ወርስት፡። ጸበዩሆመ፡"” ኣኘት፡፡፡ ሲዓሰሲም፣፤ ወ።“ዴተልዉ፡ ነፍሰመ፡ „ፎሣረ፤ ጣዖት" ኣስመ
ዚጺዴክካውን፡ መ"
ዕረፍት”
15. ጸጽሴ፡ ሎመ“፥። ሓኣሰ;። ይገብርዋ፡። ለዓመዛቫ፤።
ወዴደረድኣቸ፡። ሰፃፍ0፤ ወዴቁት'ሰ፡። ቢጾሙ ኣስከ፣ ዕሰ1፡ ሃኔ ዐባይ።።
16. ኣስመ፡።
ያወድቅ፡። ስብሐሕቲክመሙመ፡” ወዴወፈ፤ ኣኩዩ፡” በ።ልብከመ ወያነሥመል፡ “መ0ቶ፡ ወመንፈሱ፡።
ያሐሕጕለክመ፡። ለ“ችል“ክመ፡

Han:
ወጽገጦ፡፥

በሰዴፍ፣ ወዙሎሙመ፡። “ቐዱሰን፣ ወጻድቃን፡። ዴዜክፉ፡ ኃጢጸተ፡

ር. ወበኋማንቲቱ፡ መዋዕል፤
ምስሰ፡

HAP”

ውሱዲዷ፡።

ቢጾሙ”

2. ኣስመ“ ብጻሲ፡።

ከመ፡

ይደቅትሎ፡።

በ“ጀመኻን፤ ጸበው፡ ምስለ፡ ውሱደመ፡

ወ“ዴወ.ፎቁ፡"

በሞት

ሓጻስከ፡

ዚ“ይክከልኳ፡፡" ጻዴሆሁ፡ ጳምውሱዳ፡

ወ“ጋጥኣ፡

ዚ“ዴይከልኣጻ፡“"

ሓም።ነሕ፡”

ኣስከ፡

ትፀርብ፡።

ፀሐሕዶድ፤

ደገቃትሱ፡።።

ኣንኘድዓሁ፡

ውስተ፡

ደመ፡

ጋጥጻንጌ፡”

ወ“ሰረገሳት፡"

1 m trans. after N0.£:

ይውሣዝሽ፡“።

ኣዴሆሁ፡”

ኣምደመ፡

“ወኣምሃ

ውሱ.

ኣቷሀሁ፡

ሕቡር

ፈረስ፡

ኣስክ፡

ኣም

3. ወየሐውር;

“ኣስከ፤፡

ዴትኝ.ፎዉ፡

ትክዚ፡

መልዕልታ፡።

ትሰጠም።።

5

% read WN

5 mw omits next three words.

n tN
‘mniB. 29g read mlፈp:
5 mw reads 0.
5 ድ reads JAY;
7 2m Zu, 8. 9 read ብመ
ጳሲ፤ ያ ኣሌሰክሙመ፡ ኣሰ
፣ ያ። omit.
?a-mn. mB
read ሰላ;
"gm, 8, 9/u read RN; Ans
(5 reads ሰAሰi
"rr.
g/u read TB".
3 reads መሰፍን1i 05 aqd hy:
# omits.
5 9,9 read
Rp
su reags AA
"2. So also m save that it trans. HEA; after APY
ያ9ፃሃu read ይት" ፎ" ነፍበ፡ ጣዖገ፣ 5 ያት" ነፍስሙመ፡ ድ" ጠ".
" u reads ወ
"6.
mgt read Aas
u omits.
rFmB=a. g/u,aread"&Yi
»
read Aas;
2 au. #,l8 read AAA;
5 Fu, B, Zmgy read HT".

8. mgt
1 au omits

next two words.
5 7 reads Ye". fF DIAC;
5 m reads ድቀት; A.
7 m reads ቢድ;
= Fmg,8. 2 reads DE:
/።# ይወቅ
5 2 reads
ስብሐቲሁ ። omits next six words.
emg
£8 read Ah:
aay. £8
rad ውስች፤፣
= 9 ያ read" መንፈስ;
£, 8 read መንፈሰ; YE; and £ adds
ውስት፣ ልብክሙ
35 Fmt
wu reads DHL
2,5 ከመ: ሕል
= m omits,
» g reads ORAM
Spm.
BFR
Eds REY,
and omits next three words,

5 g omits,

3B au omits

next scven Words.
nrrmotL B omits.
hap; against 2 mg 7.
3
reads HAM;

5 ads በጋጢጸነ፣
1 g reads ha;

“= 9, ።/8 add
5 7 omits.

5 0 reads AN:

A:

ወል.ደ፤ ውዷ

5% m reads AM

5 8. Zmiread Ay:
።ውሱዲ፤

ደመያ read A.

/5 aዛd ምሒረ፡

”» 2 adds ጸም ጸዴሁ፡

= / reads ጽባሕ

5 AI MSS. but s/,a prefix ©.
1 9 reads Dtሐhው
0 Fem g# save that 2 reads in acc, B reads ሰራገላ;

መሰዕአኝ፡ (መልኳ" 9).
prefixes ©.

ኣደ ኣስክ፡ 0" መልዕልት፡

OAS

2,7 Ay

45 w omits next SiX Words.

(ALi 9)
yy

= e። read f0Cብ;

5 aw omits next four words,
5 mm, B. ድያ ጻባ ጻስክ፤ ዐለት

ሃ ጻስመ፡ መልጸት፣፥ መልዕልን፡

i

C. 4-10.

መጽሐፈ፡

4. በ(ጻኣማንቲ፡ መዋዕል፡

መሳሓጻሕት፡

ዛኛኻ፡

509

ዶወርዲ።። ውስት፡ ምሣባጻነ፡

መኻን; ሰሱ
ኣሰ; ያወርፎዊ፡፣ ለጋጢጸት፡ ወዶጓንሣኣ፡
ከመ፡ ዴፃበር፡ ሺነኔ፡፣ ዐቢዩ; “ልማጻከሎመ፡ ሲ’ጋጥጻን።

ወያገብኣዎመ፡

በ'ጸሐዲዳ።

ልዑል፡ በይኣቲ፡ “0ለገ፡ ዙነኔ፡፣
5. ወ“0ቐቀብት፡" ዴዶሁብ፤ ኗዴበ፡

ቫሎመሙመ፡። “ጻ.ድቃን፡ ወቅዱሳን; ጸመሳኣኳኝ፡" ቅዱሰን፡" የዐቐብዎመ፡'፡ ከመ፡ ብንት፡ ዐይን
ሓኣስከ፡ ይዩድልኳ፡" “ዙሉ፡ ኣኩዩ፡ ወሉ ኃጢጸተ፡። ወ“ኣመኒ፡"" ይነውመሙ፡ ጻ.ፎቃን፡ *ንዋመ፤

3ዋኘ፡" ወጸልቦ፡” ዘዴፈርሁ።
6. ወ“ጸመሙኔ፡። ይጨሬመኣጻዩ፡ “ሰብኣ; ጠቢባን; ወዶሌብዉ፡
ውሱደ፤ ምድር፡ ሹሉ። ነገረ፡ ዛቲ” መጽሕፍ፡ ወ“የጸምፉ፡። ከመ፡ ጺይክል፡ ብዕሎመ፡
ጸድሣግኖተመ፡ በሙዳቁ፡ ጋጢጸተሙ።
7. ጸሴ፡ ሲኽኸመ“ ጋጥጻን፡። ሶበ፡ ታፓታመኔኒፎብዎመሙመ፡
ሰ“ጻ.ድቃን;።”

በዕለት፡፥

ጻሣብ፡

መፃባራቲካሙ።
ሰኣጳኩይ፡።

ኘገግያል፡”

ወ“ጋግኒፎ.ፎዎመሙ፡”

8. ጸሴ፡ ሰክመ“። ዙፋኔ

ሀሉ”

ይርከብክመ፡።“

ሲሰኻመ“። ጋኃጥጻን;። ዲበ፡ ነገረ"
ርስዓኒክመ፡“
በ“ዋዕዩ፡ ሳህብ፡

ፍርሀገ፡።

በጻሰኘ፡

ወትትፈዶደዩ፡

ልብ፡ ጻሰ፡ “ትትግሁ፡

ወጽልቦ፡

“ከመ፤

ከመ፤ ተለብውያዎ፡።

ዘ“ፎዴረፎጸካሙ።።

9. ጸሒ፡

ጸፉክመ“።" ወዲደበ፡ ተኘባረ;። ኣደቐክመ “ኣለ; ገብረ፡።
ኣምጻሳት።
ድይውዒ።።
10. D“ድais
RA

1 Fm0fu. Other MSS. read ወቢ.
‘Fmt #9, Bread AfNi
።# AAA;
ድረድኣኛ

# omits.

2 9 prefixes ©.
5 ድ reads ስች
° oy read AAA
aL #8 read
729. ያመ read 0^ት፥ ሹገኔ፣፡ /።, 5 0ሰ1፡
sm g/u, 8.
reads Wh;
2 Fm. # reads DAAhNs
u Ahi A. /,5 AN

10 » reads ቅብዓ;

5 » trans.

4 adds ኩን; ©.

Hi treads (Ny adds BEE

X reads 3904: and adds ዓት;

after next word.

5 2

omit.

# omits p&.

1 » reads mA.
» # adds Wi » omits.
15 JIovyay prefix ©.
P3ቅብዎi
5። £0ቁብዎi
9 omit next three words.
TEN

m reads
II

read ዴትዌዳል፡
“ng. ይ 8 read tሱi Aኩና፡ (ጻዙድ፡ / ኣከዴ፡ 5) ወዙሱ፣ ኃጋጢጸት
u omits all but SLAY;
» g reads Aki
/ Ahi u omits.
0 2 trans.
aa-L #8 read AA
= fb 8. g reads Ahi gm Amis w omits.
5 0 read ሰበብጸ፡ ጠቢበ
8 mw omits.
= # adds ም.ድር፡ መYlረ፡
FI
# reads PAS
m8 RPL
wu omits together with next word.
7 n adds
በ0ሰት፡
5 ሠ reads TAY;
5 0p read BAY; wu omits next two words.
0 g reads ታድሣንP;

img,

2,8read በhoi ምሪ

። ከመ: ምሪ".

5 a, 8 reads EE (AE 9).
3 2f,3 save that £, a have Api
mg
ead ይተገሁ፡ ከመ፡ ዴሰብውያዎ፡ (ድልብውዋ፡ 7). ። ዴትግሁ፡ only.
i u, » read AAክድይ፡
Sar.
2 reads Uሰወns
5 ሀሰ
55 2, Ber, Fg, er read ረበ
መ ዴይርከቦመሙ፡ ሃ ይረበብኻካመ፡ (sic).
7 Fu, 8B, #Z reads @&ርU: (sic). 2 &EርሃY:
9 ፍርሀ1፡

5 ZF reads REAR

5 2, B add ጳስመ፤

0 2, 8 read 20

u aw omits next three words.
5 2 reads JA;
3 ru. Fg, 8 read AA JAብ¢:
መ ኣለ፡ ገብሩ ፣ኣምፃብረ፡
“/ሠ. ያ ad ረሲዓንክመ፡፥ ያ ረሲዓኒክመሙ፡ 5 ረሰዕኻመሙ፡
5 mgt save that m reads oዋOA; for P". 2, 8 read Pp” (ns om.) AVN; (x om.) ANY:
ሠ በጻሰኝ፡
5 Fmiu. g,l8 read Yው0t: 9 £3
The sentence is incomplete.
Perhaps we should add YO;

This could easily fall out after ው
Bic

Tn omits,

210

መጽሐፈ:

ሓስመ፡፡ “ጸመላኣኻት፥

ህኛክ፡

ይትጎሠሥ፡፡ ምግበሪካመ

C.io=<CL.S:

በ'ሰማይ፡ ወኣምፀሕሐድደ፡

ወ’ኣም'ወርሣ፤

ወጻምኔ;፣ ክዋሕክብኝ፡፣ በኣን1፡ ጋጢጸትክመ፡፡ “ኣስመ፡ በደበ;' ም.ፎር፡ ትገብኗ፡” ምስለ;
ጻ.ፎቃን፡ ሹኔ፡።"
11. ወያሰምዕ፡'፡ ሳዕሴክመ፡" ዙሉ፡'፡ ደመሪፍ፤ ወቹ; ወጠለ፤ ወዝናመ፤።
ኣስመ፤ ሀሰዉ፡ ሹሎመ፡"” ዴችክልጽ፡” ኣምኔክመ ከመ ዚ።ይረዲዷ ደቤኸዝመሙ። ወ።ይቕልዩ።
ደበ”

ጋጢጸትሕሙ።

12. ወድጻኒ፡

ሀበ

“ሰዝሪናም፡

ጸምጋ፡።

ከመ፤።

ዚ“ፎችክሳኣ፡።

“ወሪደ; ደቤሙ፡” ወጠል፤ ጻመ፡ ተመጠወ” ኣምኔሕመ፥
ወርቁ፡ ወብፉረ፡ “ከመ፤
ድረፎ፡፣
13. ሶበ፡ ይወርፎ፡። ደቤክመ፡፥ ጸስሕት.ያ፡ ወሐመዳቋ፡። ወቍሞረ፣ ዚጸሆመሙ፡።
ወ“ችሲ፡። ነፉሰኘ፡ ሐመዳ” ወዙ” ባዕራ1፡ ዚጸሆመ፡ በኣማንቱ፡። መዋዕል፡ ትሉ
ቀዊመ;

ቅፎሜሆሙ፡

ር1. ጠዴቅዋ፡;”

ለሰማይ"

ውሱደ፤

ሰማዴ፡።

ወዙሉ

*9ብር፡

ሰ“ልዑሁል፡ ወ።ፍርሁ፡። ኣምኔሁ፡“ ወ“ዚትፃበፉ፡ ኣኩዩ። በቅ.ፎሆ።
2. ኣመ፡።
ዐፀወ;። መስኮገ፡”" ሰማድ፤ ወክልእጸ፡ “ዝናመ፡ ወጠሲ;” ከመ ጺድረዶፎ፡። “ዷበ; ም.ፎር፤።
በኣንቲጸከመ፡፥

ia, aey.
Aa.

ሚሀሰወሕክመ፡።

ችግበፉ።

Other MSS. ha;

‘tau

wB omit

2, B read OA.

3. ወኣመ፤። ፈነወ፡ መዐተ፤ ደቤክመ።። በዙ

2 a. B reads መላት

x adds በምECI

uD.

RY Yi

sat omit,

5 2 reads

su, eFi omit.

5 ss omits next eight words.

2 a.

mgt.

B reads RY

HA;
0,8. Zmo# read ወዲበ;
" መይ Be. 2 reads TI: (sic).
'# ትክብፉ፡ 9, “ትግበሩ
2 m9
f,8B~g read Ji 4 JO; pn};
5 2 omits.
x reads #ሱ
14 / reads DሰFP0;
5 2 reads Aan
15 mf, 3, 9 read tt
ww omit.
7 Fm, B-aceF DIR. gu, ae#h8 read ወል:
5 Im, B~aeFBk,
F971, ae7ht read DHS;
5 tu, em omit.
wo
2 omits,
5 wu omits. c reads ‘Jha;
Sam
mhB read OA.
Sm, BB. 2 omits. #8 read yA
Sa, FBIRI»0. abc get) read 30;
5a, Bob trans. 08 omit AH:
For A" m reads Rs
7 m omits,
5 Zu, dy. Frm read ትላ; 5-4 ትትክላኣi « adds ዝናም;
5 im trans. au reads
ወ6#i only. g omits the next eight words.
» m reads BYRD;
ኳያያያ
OilopXyab.
mg read hi REE:
nu, B-BiIopXyab omit.
w# reads © for
next three words. dq omits next two.
5 29. Other MSS. ይወድቅ:
5g omits
next five words through hmt.
= # omits next SiX words through hmt.
5 # reads
ሸዙሎመ፥

መ, ዕዕ ዙሉ

5 2 omits.

a prefix ©.

5 9 reads Ptዋዋ;

three words.

SFmgt

Sm,

0pread thi

a omits.

0 58 add ሹልኸመሙ፥

B reads 30¢i

i

4 w omits next

5 m, f omit.

reads

&Eetሁ:

5 wu omits. en add WANs
“/n, 8. rrmg omit.
“ madds በዲበ; ምድር:
3 FhB-enx. wex read AN; mgn Ami
“9 reads A0g:
"2,8. £ reads
መስኩገ፣
መሳጻክገ፣
ና መሳኩገ፣
/። መሳክወ፡
1 2 reads Her; only.
55 w omits next five words.

4 ሀለው".

5 % reads #ቤne;

5 mg read Ri

and omits next (Wo Words.

x adds UA

Fig. Fg omit.

5 g reads AB: UA

©.

5

m reads ቢ. / 40:

reads Ake;
5 £0: tt

ምፃበሪክመ፡

911

ዛኛኖካ፡

መጽሐፈ:

CL. 3-9.

ጸኮ።፡ ጸንትመ፡ ኣሰ፣ ታስትበፉዕዎ፡፡ ኣስመ። ቫትሪገፉ፡፡ ፉበ፡ ጽፎቁ፡ ዚጸሆ፡፡

ዐቢ.ያት፣ ወጻፉንተ፡

ወጸልብዝመ፡

ሰባመ።፡

4. ኢትሬወጳይዎመሙ፡፡

ሲተኔገመች፡፡ ጸሕማር

ኣፎ፡ ይትሀወኩ፣፥ ኣሞገደ፡ ወ"ያንቀለቸሲ፣ ኣምኝፋሰት፤፣ ጸሕማሮመ፡፥ ወድትመነደቡ።
5. ወ።በጻንት፡ ዝንቱ“ ይፈርሁ፡። ኣስመ፡፤ ሹሰሲ፥ ንዋዮመ፡፥ ሠናዶይ፡፡ ድዴወፀሓ፡” ውስ
በሕር፡ ምስሴሆሙ፥
“ወሠናና፡ ጺ“ድሔልዩ፡
በአቦመ፥ ጻስመ፡ ባሕር" ይውሣጦሙ፡
ወይዴትኘኮሱ፡” ውስቴታ።።
6. ጸከኮ፡። ሹሰ፡።። በሕር፤ ወሰ ማያቲሃ፡ ወሰ ሑሰኝ፡
ፃብረ፡

አዑል፡

ውኣቱ፡

“ወውጻቲቱ፡

ሸሉ፡

ፃብረታ፡

ዐበቁመ፡።

ወጸሰሪ።

“ሹለንታሃ፤

በኖባዛ።

7. ወበተኘሣፉ፤ “ትፈርህ፡ ወኘዩብስ፡። ወ“ዙ፡። ዓሣቲሃ፡ ይመውት”
ወሸሲ፥ ዘሀስ፡
ውበስቴኝ፣ ወጸንትመሙ፡፥ ጋጥጳን፡ ኣሰ; ዷበ፡;” ምድር፡ ዚጺትፈርህዎ።።
8. ጸከፉ;። ውኣቲ
ገብረ፤

ሰማዩ፤

ወጥበበ”

ወምድረ፡።

ሰሹዙሱ፡።

ወሉ

ዘ“ሀሉ፡።

ኣሰ፡ ዴትኝወሱ፡።

ዲበ

ውስቴተመ፥

ምድር፡

መኒ”

ወ*“ለኣጻሰ፡

ወሀበ፣

“ችትምህር

በሕር።።

0. ኮፉ”

ውጸተመ፡።" ተኔገሥች፤“። ጸሕማር፡ ድፈርህኛዋ፡። ለባበሕር፡ ወ።ፆኃጥጳን፡“

1 eh iread Ahi
5 € omits.

mtu, 8. £reads Rስተብቀ".

* a omits next three Words.

ሰልሁስል፡ ጽ“ዴፈርህዎ።

9ታስተስብፉ".

°F reads LAVa

በሳመ፡፥ 8 ሰሳም
7a-g. 9,8 read DA
g reads TeX; Hi u YEN: (sic).

‘ታስትበፉ0;
5 a~m.

mm reads

s Fmt Be. ge omit the final tr.
* HY; = Baraéas = 52 corrupt

for iy = yavras (Halevi 392).
» m reads PEC: DAYJRC
u gy read DAK.
15 pm omits.
50 omits,
11a omits.
15 # omits next nine words.
15 af88nyw

omit.

7 9 reads DOA;

5 B, ZFmgt read wSt:i (WS: is) OX.

15 £ adds ምhስሆPw ሠ ይ;i ይሔ!
a better reading than the text.

በ0

ስመ! ባበሕር፡

mm adds DREN

1

።# DX.

Perhaps this contains

reads በውስቴJi

=.

# reads Aoi Other MSS. Rh:
5g, ef hy read WAI ss omits next five words.
4 e (save that it gives Ap; for 0ቁpai). So also §-y save that for Rpm: it reads
ሐተመ፤ and » ወማያ፡ ዐቅመ ደ» read ወውጻቱ፡ ብራሂቲሃ፤ ወማያ፤ ኢኖ reads ወዙ
7ብራ7; oi
9 Jብራtyi ot
au omits.
Cf. Jer. v. 252i Prov. vii. 29; Job
XXXViii. 8, io.
Sm, IB: ‘#79 read, DANE; sO:
NF irahs:”'
Tap.
B-X trans. 2 reads YAN;
= 9 read tN; c omits next three words through hmt.
5 Fu, Other MSS. &oo’E:i su omits next three words.
0 a. B reads 0h;
i 9, a read AYE.
= g reads Rhi su omits.
SBE ORNL:
a: 8 Bres
fixes ©.
™ wu reads ጥበበ; ችAምCY; 5 trans. 2 reads ትምVCY; TON; # reads
ችYኣaምCYi ወጥበበ;

ሲሸሎሙ፡

ወት ምር;

B~a ። ለኣጻሰ፡ ውስኘ፡

“8.

# omits next nine words.

7 akgnvw omit.
ባሕር፡

# reads ውAትi

ሃገመት፡ በውስት፥

5 nn reads AE:

5 ያ

ሪs ውስት፤

£ omits.

ባሕር፡

uw FmgL

#,B read

„ድ eas ኣሰ፡ በባሕር፡

” ሲጻሰ፤ በባሕር

። ባሕር፡ on!.

5 g reads Ahi

mg read ውቲ:

na See note 9.

£ reads

።«-,a#. #,8-agt read “Jp; 9 RይፈCYP: m adds ለምደር፡ ©,
ia, @eikino.

B~aeyt ino read STA};

5 #F omits.

ኣ15

መጽሕሐፈ፡

C11. በ'ኣማንቱ፡

መዋዕል፡

ሰለጻመ፡።፡

ወደዩ።

ዛኛህ፡
ደቤክካመ፡

CII. 1-6.
ዕፁበ፡;፡ ኣሰ

በጸዴቱ፡፡

ነገፍፁ፡፡

ወበጸፎቱ። ትፎሣግኒ፡ ወውስበ፡ ይወዳዷ፡ ቃሉ፡፡ ደቤካመ፡ ጸኮ፡" ትችትመሀክከዉ፡። ወትፈርሁ።
2. ወ“ሸሎመሙ፡። ብርሃናት" ይትመሀክከዉ፡ በፍርሀት ዐቢዶ፡ “ወሸሳ፡ ም.ድር፡ ትትመሀክከው።
ወ'ችር0ዕ.ፎ፣ ወችትቕቱጳ።
3. ወሸሎመ። መላኣኻት፡ ይፌጽሙ" ትኣዛክዘመ፡ ወይፈቅዳ፡
ከመ፡። ይትንብጽ፡"
ኣምቅ.ድመ፡”
ፀቢዶይ፡። ስብሕት፡ ወዴርዕዲዴ፡ “ደቁቁ፡ ምድር።
ወ“ይትሀወኩ፡።

ወጸንትመ፡።

ኃጥጻን፡

ርጉማን

ለዓሰም፡።

ወጸልብክመ፡

ሰሳመ።።

4.

ጺት'ፍርሁ፣ ጸንትመሙ፡ ነፍሰ፡ ጻድቃን፣ ወትሰፈዉ፡። “ኣሰ፡ ሞትኻመሙመ፡። በጽደቅ።"

5. ወጺት

ጓዘ”

ሥጋክሙ

ኣመ”

ወረደት።

ነፍስካመሙ፡።

ውስተ፡

ሲጾል፡

በሐዘን፤፡

በሕይዴወትኸመሙ፡። በከመ፡። ሂፉትሕመሙ፡። “ዘሳባ፡ ጽንሑ፡። ለዕለት;

ወበዕለት፤ መርገም ወ።መቅሠፍት።

6. ወሰበ፤ ትመውቲቱ፡ ዴብዙ፡ ሳዕሴከሙ፡“ ጋጥጻን፡"

17 0/u, apbcgek. Zmreadሲ. FBrtinov
00.
ፈነወ
4 F trans. after ANY: e reads 0005
omits.
ጸድቱ

ወጺረከበ፡።”

ኣንተ;። ዙኔ፡። ጋጥጻን;"

5 wu omits next two words.

‘m9.

2, omits.
5 # reads
sm.
iu, B read
reads DRE:
s domits.
mB read Ahk;
OH

2 g reads WN; wu omits next two words.
"229,
read TYUOhi # omits next three words.
።
reads fi:
5 ae Save
that £ reads YoY".
wu reads Oትትመሰai
8 ድYUOh;
ig BPE
ወም.ድር፡ ወቫሱ፡ ያ ወም" ወስ
ሃ ወም" ወሸላሳ፡ ። ወም" oly.
RE
Z reads RY".
wa omits.
15 au omits.
7 9 reads AYR
5 uN
(erased) omit.

B-x read 04;
5 an.

15 # omits next seven Words.

x AIHA

ግ 2 adds 'J&

= 2 reads &£YY".

ነዘ, 8 read ሰሳም

25 a.

1 ae.

5 g appends ሰN.

B-x read 1ፍሰት፡

a omits.

4 0 omits.

x ወጺትዶደንኘፀፁ፡

ጸንትመ፡

7 ድ reads DY ba;
3 mo cFBRInx,a. #9#u read AA TE: s 1ፍ0N; ኣሰ
ሞEi aydeoxs 0AY ሞት
SL
# reads RYH:
Other MSS.
ወጺትግዝፉ፤ ። omits. 9 agds Ai ሞች
በጽድቅ;
ofr. Other MSS. AN:
# reads Dei

ወናxni ©.

5 ድ reads

በቢ.

# adds nw;

5 gta.

= 8

Su read Rehበi

< በጻን1፡

aባ4 ውስት፣

» #Z reads beሻMos

5 Fmended from RA; AYhi of

ዐቢዶ፤ ምንዳቤ፡

m Noi Rennes

u omits next six words.

ngs, 8. # reads ti Yh:

unmeaning here and is clearly a corruption of Riis
are again bidden TAY; ሰAሰs መዋ0ል፡ ኣስክ፡ ዴት

ወገዓር፡

9 Ree:

The word Ah; is

Cf. cviii. 2 where the righteous
Rs ኣሰ: £1ብrs aኩt: and in

cviii. 3 RYN: ጽን; as in our text.
7 Fmended from OAT; of .Zi, 8. mg
read በ0ለ^Y፡
5 2, 8 add በቲ; against Zn
5 Fmended from hia;
# reads RhYins It is clear from the context—cf. the preceding AOAY: Ait
and the subsequent AOAY; መርጋ
i —that hw is the corruption of a substantive,
Trg,a.
Other MSS, DTA
This word may be a gloss, and its incorporation
in the page has led to the change of Wy; into fina; which was subsequently

corrupted into hina;

wu reads Df;

5 a. B reads በA0h".

5 # omits.

GE GEIS:

መጽሐጠፈ፡

ዛኛ፡

913

ከመ፡ “ሞት ሞፒቱ፡፡ ጻፎቃን፡ ወ“ምንት፡፡ ኮኔ፤ በቍጌተሙመ፡’ በምፃባሮሙ።፡፡
7. ፲1ዊ;
ከማ ሞቱ። በሐዘን፡ ወበጽልመች፡ ወ“ምንት፡። ፈፎፋይሙ፤ ኣምኔ፡፡ ጻምይኣዜ፣
ትዐረይ።
8. ወምንተ ይነሥዉጵ፡። ወ“ምንት;። ድዴሬኣዩ፣፥ ሰንሲም፡። ወ“ልሙንቱሄ፡
ንዋ፣፤ ሞ፲ቱ፡። ወ“ኣምይኣዜ፣ ለንሲሰሲም። ጽዴሬኣዩ፣ ብርሃኔ"
9. ኣብሰክመ፥ ጸንችሙ፡”
ጋኃጥጻን፡ ጸከለካመ፡ በሲዕ፡;። ወ“ሰቲይ፡። ወ“ሀይ.ፎ፡።” ወ“ጋጢጸት፡። “ወጸዕርቁቅተ፡ ሰብኳ፡።
ወጸጥርዮች፡። ንዋፎ፡። ወ“ርኣጻዮች፤። መዋዕል” ሠሪናዴድ።
10. ርጽኻዎዎመ፡” ሰጻድቃን፡ ጻፎ፤
ከኔ” ተፍጻሟጃትመሙ፡።
11. ወ“ተሕኾሱ፡”"

ኣስመ፡
ወከኮፉ፣

ዙሳ፡። ፃፍ);
ከመ፤”።

ዘጽኮፉ፡

ዚ።ተረካክበ፡።” በ“ሳዕሴሆመሙ፡።

ሓኣስከ;። ሞ፲ፔ።።

ወ“ወረዱ፡“።

መንፈሳቲሆሙ፡።

ውስተ፡

ሲፀል፤፣

በምንዳቤ።
C111. ወይኣኒ፡ ጸኔ፡ ኣምሐል፡“ ሰዝሙ፥ ሰሲ“ጻድቃን፤
ሰዐቢዶደ፡ ወሰክቡር፡ ወዕዙH፡ መንግሥት“ ወበዕበዩ፤;። ኣምሕጠል፣ ለካሙ።

“በስብሐሕሐቲቱ
2. ኣስመ፡

ጸኔ፡። ጸጸምር፡"

ቅፎስተ፡።

ምሥጢረ;

ወጸንበብኩ፥

ፀፍፀፈ፡”"

ሰማይዶ”

ወርጺኩ፥

ጽሕፈት

19 reads TPH
‘Zn, B-Dcgixa II Bcdi%,a read IYI
mn adds
ጺችሣግዝ፤፡
4 g reads A. SO. a omits.
5 a omits,
s g reads hy;
u omits next three words.
7 reads TP
5 ድ reads ምንዳቤ፡ 9 ምi1
5 gu omit.
0 f prefixes ©. X reads Lak;
1 % reads ድዴትዓረድ፤ ምስ
ae omits next two Words.
15 0 # (save that 9g omits initial ©), 8. Z,gm read YY:
5 my, 8, Fg

read Yi:

“mn reads iY

mn omits.

Engr

read Aስoi
Tmt.
# reads AYE; «u omits.
dg prefixes ©.
ሲንሰም፤
= ሪሆ/5s።5 omit.
= 29 read በሊ:
=u 2 read ሰቲ
B በትድ፤
= ድ reads ሃይደ፡ 9 ይደ
። ሀዪደ፡
4
reads DJTAY'i
5 2, 8 trans. before UE;
omits next three words.

ርኣዩ

against a=. wu omits.
5 Fmgh Bcglox,ab.

5 mg read መዋOA;

229,509 read CAMP

a~ 2 read ri

x adds ምሮ

ae omits.

mg, 8 read thi

8.00 read DATEES | Sy
ga read CAY; e/5r8npy

90 miu, ade/hBhpw.

but add £.

©;

8

"# adds
# 0LEE
su omits.

but .# prefixes ©.

#,bclxa read as in text
» CAME

i

32 B adds ሰላ; against a.

Sh

= u reads &€7305

£ reads THY:

9,75 omit.

7 ድ reads “Ms
m adds Aስመi Rትረnበ: YE
5 gu read AN;
nag;
#, 8 read 0AY; ሞተ
"9 reads Ji
“nm reads Ahi
= e reads ረጃ:
Smt
SmSEN"., Similarly # መiehN". 2,19 read ወ(3omJiEሰtPis
“as
read AYA
5 e omits.
5 ZF and also iF save that #Z omits A before

ዐቢይ፡ ።ያ፤ cad በስብሐሕቱ፡ ሲ(። ሠ.) ዐበቢይዶ፣ ወበ (ያ om. በ)ክቡር፣ መገንፇሥመቱ፡ # reads
በስብሐት፤ ዐቢይዴ፤ ወኳቡር፣ and omits rest of verse.
8-» በ0ቢድi ስብሐቱ ወፉ
ወበ(4። om. በ) ር; (4 ክብር) መንኘሠመቱ፡
» በ0" ስ" ወበዕበድ፡ ኣጻምሕል፤ ሰኸሙ፡
ወካብፉኛ፡ ወበክቡር፡፣ መንግሥቲ
7 F908. gm read በ00;
Sr omits.

5 fF reads ANC:

/, 8-y add Hii

» adds H" after ምሥ".

ኣመጻሕፍተ፡
8
x ሰማይ፡ ቅዱሰን

በጸፍጸፈ

5 9. ድ/ ead

ቅድሰተ፤፣

9w.
ያመ

gx

Af reads
ቐዱሰዝ

914

መጽሐፈ:

ዛኛሽ፡

ወረከብዙ፡፥ ጽሑፈ፡ ውስቴተሙ፡፡ ወ“ልኩዐ።።
ወፍሥሓ፡፡ ወሕነብር፡ ተደለወ፤፡ ወተጽሕፈ፡
ሂሄወብዙሣ፤

ሠናይ;

ይትወሀብ፡"

ኣም።ኽፍሰ፡።” ሕያዋን።
ወደተፈሥመሑ፡

ሰካመ“።"

CIIL. 2:

በጻንቲጸሆሙ፡፡
ሰመንፈሳሰቲሆመ፡፣
ተሰ;

ጻማኳመ፡”

4. ወ“የሕዴዶዉ፡፡ መንፈስከመ፡"

ወይትሐሠዩ"

ወጺዴደትሐሕጐሱ፡።”

3. ኣስመ፡ ሲሱ ሠናይፎ፡
ለኣሰ፡። ሞ፲ቱ፡ በጽፎቹ፡
ወዝፍልመ፡።

ፈድፋደ

ሲኳሰ፡ ሞትሕመ፡።

በጽ.ፎቱ፡

መንፈሰቲሆመ፡።”።

ወጺተዝካሮመ፡።

አምቅ

ድመ፡ “1ጺ፡ ሰ"”0ቢይ፡ ሰሱ” ትውልደ ዓሲም፡። ወድኣዜኒ፡ ዚትፍርህዎ፡። ሰገግሣሮሙ።
5. ጸሴ፡ ሰክመ፡ ምውታን; ጋጥጻን፡ ሰበ፡ ትመውቱ፡ በ“ብዕሰ;። ጋጢጸትመ፡።” ወዴይብሴ፡።
ሂደቤሕመ፡ ልለ፡ ከማሕመ፡።” ብፁዓን ኣሙንቱ፡ ጋጥጻን፡ ሸሉ፡”" መዋዕሎመ፡፥ ርጳዩ።።
6. ወደኣዜኒ፡። ሞቱ በሠናድ፡፡ ወበብዕል፡ ወ“ምንዳቤ፡ ወቁትሰሲ፡። ርኣዩ በሕይወተመሙ፡።
ወበስብሕኝ፥ ሞቲቱ፡ ወዙነገኔ፡ ጽጺትገብረ፡ ሎመ፥ በሕይዴወተሙ።
7. “ታጸምርዎመ፡፥ ኣጸስመ፡
ሰሲጾል፡ ያወርድዎመ፡ ሰመናፍስቲክመ፡። ወጻኩያት፡” ዶክከውና፡" ምንዳቤሆመሙመ፡። 0ዐቢዩ።“

' 0 reads ጽሑፍ
B MSS. aeFB8y

። ጽሐፈ

:Fmghp nm

trans. 0” before ጽሑéi

Fa, Bn read NEE:

n also trans.

$8.

ያልሁል፡
4 # reads ስቴተሙ፥
5 w omits next two words.
75 ድተeas ሰመንፈሰቲክሙ፡ ያ ጸስማቲሆሙ፡ 5 ለመናፍስቲክመ፡
w omits.

s # reads AN;

? Z/ read ብዙ:

Of the

a9 read AO:

5 2, 8 add aw
5 ሰመናፍስፒሆመሙ፡

ሠናይ:

Z ብዙ:

ሠ.

መ ወብዙሣ፣ ሥና ይት፥ ያ? ብዙን፡ ሠናዩ: 5 ወበብዙሣ፡ ሠናይድ፤ ። omits.
ወሀብ; (sic
uu aw omits.
s m reads Aስከi # reads AY.

10 m reads
3 # omits next

six words.

“£8.

#g omits.

reads Ei

+ adds ዲሰ

# read

የሐዩ፡ ። ያሕድዶዉ፡ ያ ይሕየዉ፡
7D.
mH read mi&ha;
RE,
Zmgtu read TE:
vee, B. m reads AYሐhሠይi Ams
g/u omit.
o Fg/u.
reads RY:
mn ወጺደYሕAi
5 omits.
u omits next five
words.
nm
#9, 8 read መናፍስቲ".
5 . ድ reads ጺYHnሮ
መ ወጺትዝክሮመ፥
ና ወጺተዝካራቲሆመሙ፥
ደ, “58 ወትዝካሮመሙመ፡
wh
mt read 18;

91;

f omits.

= u omits next three words.

5 m reads RYECYT:

aox'b “pw
5 Fm0L # reads YY;
3 omit.
Jag. 98 omit.
5 u reads SLAY
5 m0.
8-ahkn read Ai ሰ; ከኝ” ዲቤ. ass
ኣሴ ጻሰ፤ ከማ".
0 no read Wi
wu omits with next two words.
3 g reads
Cርጺዩ፡ Z adds ሠናዩ
5 fu read Di om.) PA;
a c omits next eight Words
through hmt.
A Fm, Bcdeloab. #9, % read 0. #, af ss8ny omit.
I
read ችል:
55 9 reads RCA:
s7 w omits next six Words through ht.

5 Fru save that # reads ht; for A before AA: and ELV;
and for the latter word, which ss omits, £2 read AmgéehNEሆPaos

ትጸመርዎመ፡
ያወርፎዎመ፡

for Asa:
#, B-n read

(ትጸምርዎመቱ፣ 8) ጻስመ፤ (ከመ፤ ረ. ፅፀ ዕመi) ለ (ውስች፥ 9) ሲጸል፡
(ያውርድ" ሪረ፡ሪ) ሰመንፈሳቲ። (ነፍሳቲ" 5). ። ወበስብሐት፣ ሞቱ፡ ኣስመ

ሰሲፀል፤ ያየወርፎዎመ፡ ትጸምርዎኒ ሰመገፈሰቲክሙ፡
። ;5 clearly dependent on m5 and
rads ወበስብ” ሞቲ፤ ተጸምርዋመሙ፡ ሲነፍሰቲሆመሙመ፡ ኣስመ፤ ውበች፣ ቤፅል፡ ያወርድ". ። ois
next six words after PO".
#29 read AY;
"9g reads ይhውያi
"gm, ge.
c reads ን".
F9/ iA
“908.
reads በቢ; # P0ቢE: m omits.

CI. S=12.
8. ወ“ቢ'ጽልመት፡

ወበመርበብኝ፥፣

መጽሐፉ፡

ህሄኛኻ፡

915

ወበሳባህብ፤

ዘደነፎፎ፡

ኘበ።

መንፈበክሙ፡፣ ወዥነኔ፡ ዐባይ፡፡ ትክውን፡፣ ሰዙቡ፡፣ ትውልደ;

ሹነኔ፤

ዐፀባደ፡።፡

ትበውልኣ።

ዓሰም; ጸሴ፡ ሰዝመ፡ ኣስመ፤

ጸልብክመ፡፥ ሰላመ።።
9. ዚትበልዎመ፡፥ ሰጻድቃን፡ ወሄራን፤ ኣለ፡ ሀለዉ ውስቱ፡
ሕጥይደወት፥ በመዋዕሰ፤፡ “ሥራሕኔ፤ ጻማ፡። ጻመወሣጎ;“ ወሹሎ፡ ሥራኝ፤ ርጺ።" ወ“ኣኩያቱ፡
ብዙጋች፡'፡ “ረካብ፤፡ ወተወዳዕ፤፣
ወ“ጸልቦ፡።

ዘይረፎጸ፤።

ወውሣድ፤"

በነገር”

ወ“ንጻሰገ፡"። መንፈስ!"

ወጺበምንትኒ፡።

ዚረክብ”

10. ወ“ችሕሐኾል፤።

ወ።*ችጺጻዐር፤።

ወተሐጕል፤፡።

ወ“ጸ=ትበፈው” ክከመ፡ ንርጸዶ፡”
ሕይወገ፡ ዕለት ኣምዕለት።
11. ንሴቤፎ፤።
ንኩን; ርሓጳበ፡ ወ።ከኮኔ። ዘነበ: ጻመውነ፡። ኣንዘ፡ ንትጌበር፡። ወጺ“ሠሰጥኔ። ዴበ፡ ጻማኔ።
ወ“ኮኔ;”" መበልዕተ፣ ሰጋጥጻን፡ ወሰ“ዓማፀያኘን፡ ወ“ጸኻበዱ፡ ሳዕሴ፤። ጸርዑቫ፣ ዚጸሆሙ።
i, omits.
= # reads ©.
5S Fmgu, ct read 0ቢ&i ss omits next two
words.
dy omit next four words through hmt,
“2 prefixes ©.
°F reads

መንፈስሙ፡
5 9, ar read ዓቢ; u omits.
ወሲ ሹነኔ፤ ዐቢይ
s Z reads A. m omits.
10 B omits next three words.

ያፃ/ሥሶ። ead ሥራሑመሙ፡ ጻማሣ፤

uu a omits.

፣ መ aባds ወትበውል፣፥ መንፈስካሙ፡
2 a. B reads ትው; Aስh፡ A.
15 a7.

mm, 8 read ሰላም;

ያ ሕይወተመ፡ ጻማ፡ ሥራሑሖሙመ፡

ስራኝ

5

ፐhroughout

the remaining verses of this chapter ,# puts the verbs and pronominal suffixes in the
3rd person except in a few cases in vers. 14, 15. The exclusive use of the 3rd
person would certainly make the sense of the text much clearer. Since, however,
the MSS. evidence so preponderates in favour of the 1st person we must perforce

accept it.

11 Z reads Ro

5 # reads CAE:

read ኩት

ብዙኘ፣

። ጻኩያት፣

reads ረhቡi ደውti

ያ ሹሱ፡ ጻኩያት፣
ውሕጃ

gmt Ina.

For YO" 9 reads YoጃRH

next two words.
gf behzfinx.
3ን0ስት፡
5 2 reads miፈhos

F,eFBstl

ሪዕሀረናox5 ጻከያት፣ ብዙን

io

«a reads ረhብy: and omits

# reads YጽAትi £ YAY; hi m, acd/ 0a
x adds YU:
n ድ rads ሐኾሰ፡

a 2008-4
mu, dg omit.
Sac,
ZF reads HRረድAamwi 5-49 HረድAk
5 Fgn8.
# reads በylei m YI
sw omits.
iF
read "BIL
ፀ በምንትኒ፤
#8 ወበምፃባር፡ (ሪ "መንፈስኃ ስ ወጺምንትኒ፤
ሠ omits.
5 2 reads

ዚረከቡ፡

5.

m reads +O3CH

gu, 8c TጽOCH

ZF omits. wu omits next nine Words.
SF
dg omits next six words.
mF reads CAE

« ትAOCH

s ትጽ0

omit.
2
reads ትሰፈዉ
a m adds hi
and omits

the precedine hot;
5 9
መ as ገሴፈው፥ 8 ወትሰፈው
ያ ድዴቤፈዉ፡
5 ያ read ኩቱ፡
5
reads Lh;
5 m reads HAIበAi 9 Hiበcs;
iy,
prefixes ©. 2 reads ama:
/ Aki
7 # reads ይትጌበፉ፣፡ ።# ትጌበር፡ 9 adds
ወጺበማዕ
5 # reads NAW:
u omits the rest of verse 11, all verse 12, and the
first three words of 13,
®
reads RFs
"ZF reads mr;
aHoRX,

Bn x read ©.

5 £.

Other MSS. omit,

3 Z reads ANP;

916

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

CIT. +2 =O

12. ተሰልአጡ፡፡ ደቤነ። ኣሰ፡ ድዴጺልእጹነ። ወ“ኣሰ፡ ድደጕዑፁ፤፡ ወ“ሲ፡ኣሰ፡ ይጺጸልጽ፤፡ “ጸትሐሕት
ሰደ! ወጺ“ ምሕናን፡፣
13. ፈዋ.ፎ፤፣ ንውር፡'› ኣምኔሆመሙመ፡ ከመ፡ ንገፈቋጽ፡” ወ*ናዕርፍ፡።
ወጺ።ረክብነ;”
Jበ፡

ግበ፡

መሳባኣኳት፡"

ንኮይይደ;።

ወ“ንድጋን፡፡

በምንዳቤ፤።

ኣምኔሆሙ።

ወ።ጸራሣኔ"

ወገዐር፤”

14.

ሄበ፡

ኣሰ፡

ዚጸ፤፡ ጺይሬኣጻዩ፡። ወጺዴፈቅዲዱ፡ ከመ፤ ዴስምዑ፡ ቃለነ።።
የሐዴዷነ፡።”

ወ።ዴበልዑቱ፡።”

ወ“ሃለኣሰ፡

ጽውሐሕዲዷኘ፡።

ሓምኔኔ፡

ጸርዑቡተመ፡።

ሰጻሰ;። ዴበልዑኔ፡

ወጹ“

ተዝክፉ፡

ጸንሥጵ፡።

ኣደዊሆመ፡።”

ይዜክፉ፡።

መሳኣክት፡።

ሓስመ፡።

ከመ፡።”

በሰማዶዴ፡።

i E, deloya.

9 reads ተሰጦ:

5 2, 05 read £ቤሆPa;

“ዶበልዐን;።

ወጽራሐሕ፡

15. ወሂይረድጳዎመሙ፡። ሲኣኳሰ፡

ወ“የገብጹ፡

ወይዘረዝፉነ፡።

ፃፍዖፆሙመ”

ወዴቁትሰሱን፡።

ሳዕሴኔ።፤“

CIV.

በኣንቲጸካሙ፡

» YA:

2, reads ይRANAAPmi

ወሰከድዴናሆሙ፡።

ወጺያወፀጹ፡

ወየንብጽ፡
ኣምሕል፡

ለሠናይዴ፡“

ቁትሰ፤፡
ለክሙ"

በ"ቅ.ፎመ፡

/, B-4ei0ya,s read ተሠ
ac omit next four words through

hmt.
«# B (though 9 de read ££" (0). # reads AH: ££". So also 9 save that
it adds ይጺጸልጹ፡ before ድደ".
ሳላ0ላይ፡ ደጕኾጺኔ፡ ያ ይደደኮጽዎሙ፡
5 0s omit.
5 ድ reads ይጺጸእኣዎሙ፡
7 ድ reads ጸትኝቱ፡ ያ ጸትሕቱ፡ ክሳደ
sg, eBiw. mh
apcdFsInox,a,b read መሀ
9 ምሕ
መሕርዎመ
5 mot 8 reads
ወፈቁ". ያ ወፈቁዲኗ፡
0 F9# B፣k. mo 8-58 read ሑር! # Ee
ug. mp8
read Y1ER: 9 ፈም:
LI
«u omits together with following ©.
m8.
7 reads P0C& fF O0C+; # omits next five words,
Z reads ረhቡi
reads
ዴኾኮድዩ፡
5m, lob. 948-108 read Jድ4Yi fF REY:
1 # reads Dሰhድy:
and omits next two words.
7
adds ወI0+፡
15 Z reads ቢምንዳቤሆሙ
au omits next five words,
1» # reads RCE
52. F omits this word, as we
have seen in note 17, though it inserts it elsewhere.

ዴበልዕዎሙ፡

። ዴበልሁዑ፡

= መ፻,8.

a omits together With next word.

Other MSS. omit.

ድ reads RይርAዩ፡
5 F reads PN

9 ጴይርኣዩ፡

NF reads

ያ ርኣዩ

uu omits next three words.

=“ g,|3. Fm read NCAANPms
9 “Mp
5 mt8.
ZF reads UA:
ፃ ይጸውዱ
ያ ይዴሀይፎዎሙመ፡
5 F reads NOP
5 በA0Y: # omits next
two words.

7 mF omit.

5 2 reads REP

5 en omit.

m 0 reads

tIብAii
" u omits next five words.
= g reads RCPቶs
5m. £705 read
Afi 9, 870 AA: The clause Of YR %” which follows shows that the words immediately following RCo; refer to the enemies of the righteous and not to the rulers.
Hence AAA; or AA; not AA; is right. The word « rulers’ forms the subject of all the
principal verbs.
a FBIRInOX,ab. abcde read HCH:
ss omits next four
words.

ትዘክትኻካመ፡፥

5 % reads ወስዲ;

ያ ተዘከርዎመ፡

2 OY".

/ ይዜክፉ፡ ከመ፡

5 g reads ©.

። ወ oኳ!y.

ኣዴሆሙ፡
0 Fu read AOL;
# omits next two words.
5 mn reads AN;
SF omits.
9 reads Rhnri n prefixes H.

two words.

5 9 reads lሠS&ይi

። በሰ;

AvS Ei

5m g,l8. # reads

5 m omits.

» በበ:

5 # reads

ሣ ። 3 add ጻ.ፎቃን]፤
Sw omits next

u omits.

CIV: i=y:

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛቹ፡

517

ስብሐቲሁ ሰዐቢዶ፡። ወ’ጸስማቲክሙ፡፡ ይጸሕፍ።፡ በቅ.ድፎመ፣ ስብሐቲሁ ሰዐቢዶ።
9
ትሰፈዉ፡፡ ኣስመ፡ ቁዳሚ፡፣ ጋሠርካመሙ፡ በኣከድ፡ ወ“በ“መራሣ፡። ወይጻዜኒ፡ ትበርሆ፡" ከመ፤
ብርሃኔ” ሰማዶ፡ ትበርሆሁ፡። ወ።ችችሪረጸዩ። ወ“ኖሣተ፡።“ ሰማይ፡ ይትረኘው፡" ለከሙ።
3. ወጽራኝ፤ ዚጸካሙ፡ ቫነኔ፡ ጽርኙ፡'፡ ወያስተርዉ፡ ለክካመ“። ጻስመ፡” ኣምኔ፤ መሳኣክነ፡
ዴትጋሠሥ፡። ሹሉ" ምንዳቤክመ፡ ወ“ልምሸሎመ፡ ጻሰ፡ ጸርድጻዎመ፡ ሲኳለ፤ የሀይዷክሙ።
4. ተሰፈዉ፡ ወጺትሣፎጊ፥ ተስፋክመ፡ ኣስመ፡ ትከውን፣ ሲሰከመ፡ ፍሠሥሓ፤ ዐቢይ ከመ፡
መሳጻሕት፡

ሰማይዴ።

5. ምንተ

ሀሰወክሙመ፡።

በዕለት፤ ሹኔኔ፡ ዐባደ፡። ወጺ“ትት'ረክበ፡። ክመ
ኣምኔሕመ፡።” ሰለሹሱ፡ ተውልደ ዓለም።
ትሬኣፎዎሙ፡

ምስሴሆመሙ፡

ሰጋጥጻጓን፤

ይጴንዑ፡”

ትግበ

ጸኮ፤ ትገግብጹ፡”

ሀለሰወከሙ፡

ኃጥጻን፡ ወ" ዙነኔ፡ ኣንተ፡ ለዓንሰም፡ ትከውን
6. ወይጻዜ፤፡ ጸችፍርሁ፥ ጻድቃን ሶበ፡”

ወ።ይደዴለጢ፡።

ፍኖተመሙ፡።

ዉጸትኩቱ፡።”

ሱቱ

ጸሳ፡። ረሕቁ፡። ኣጻምኘፍ0፡ ዚጸሆመሙ፡። ጳስመ፡ ሰ“#ራ፤፡። ሰማይ፡ ሀለወክመሙ።"

ችኹኩፉ፡” ሱቲፉነ።።

፣. ወ“ጻስመ፡ ትብሲ፡ “ጸንትመ፡ ጋጥጻን፡። ዚሥትሣሥመሁው፡። ወጺ“ድጽሕፉ፥“

1 ድ reads መላ:

5 tt, OBR

omit next five words through bmt.

as

e reads Ni
Ber omit.
1 m,e read AN ta;
2 Fm, 8. # reads
ድጽሐሕፉ፡ ?7፣ ይጽሕፉ፣
። aባዛs በሰማይ
s au omits next three words,
7a
Ba read በ#".

5 Dc omit.

5 su omits next seventeen words,

uZmgL
\g, Bread ብCYSY: ZFመሳANYi
x ችትችዊዓዩ፣ ያ ትርጸዩ
4 ድ read ጋች;

a.

0 9,0 omit.

8 omits
reads YY".
5
mg FRI0b. # reads

“Ji
»nxa ረሐai
In ay9cdeys it is doubtful whether it is sing. or plural.
5 mgf 8. # reads ACH: £ ACJY:
7
omits.
5 cgFh Iya read “yur:
0,5 Hw p; u omits next seven words and all verse 4.
ng omits.
AF, mg, Fn. #BJsn read 0ይ:
th B-en AY:

nu omits.

four words.

7 9, 5 read 0ቢይ፡
1 Zm.,

5 0, FDI

5 gy prefix H.

read Aono;

1 m,sreadtt; 09 ptt:
5 aim pe, m reads YY:
24 m omits.
iu omits next

5 # reads DY;

and omits next nine words,

5 9 reads Ch:

9g reads ጽY0:

። omits.

5 F reads AON;

Other MSS.

read a0;

0 @ omits,
52 mw omits.

5 2 reads ዴሰ
m PLEAD
9 RN
u omits next fourteen words.
Army
# ads በፍ". 5 በፍትወቶተመ፥
Sau. § reads OK". F adds MMማሆw ©.
25 Fm read A
7 Fm read C4;
5 rmg read LAM;
IN,
= dyagay corrupt (?) for éyyeaey (Flemming). ag reads ሓeoi Other M55. hራi—
which may be right: cf. Luke ii. 13 (Rev. xix. 14).
40 Fr omits. gro read

ሀለውኸመሙ፡
+ BeBpox. fn trans. YY: afer rE". 2548 add it on margin. All
other MSS. omit. The syntax requires it.
reads NE". /hታ&i # Et]:
and adds AY
oy
ONE MSS: omit.
“reads EY DDE
#9 read ይጽሕፍ:

nu YXሕhፉi

#8 AE:

Ff

# omits next six words,

9518

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛካኻ፡

CIV. y=,

“ዙሉ ኃጋጢጸጊኝ; “ይጽሕፉ፥ ሀለዉ፡፡ ሺሎ ኃጢጸትችክመሙመ፡፡ “በዙሲሱ፡ ዕለት'።፡
ኣዜኒ ይኔ; ጸርኣዩካመ፡። ኣስመ፡ “ብርሃን ወጽልመት
“0ለት፡ ወሴሲት፡፡’
ሹሉ

ኃጢጸትሙ፡።

0. ዉትርሥዐሁ፡"።

ሰነገረ፡ ርትዕ፡። ወጽ።“ታሕስውዩ"።
ሓላስመ፤

ዚከኮነት፣

ዐቢዶዴ።።

ዙሱ፡”

ሕሰትኻመ፡።

10. ወይዴኣዜኒ፡

በአብክመ“

ሰኔገረ፡ ቅዲስ
ወሸሱ፡።

ጸ፤፡ ጻጸምርሮ፡።

ርስዓንክመ፡።

ወ“ዩፀልዉ፡።” ብዙሣ፡። ጋጥጻን;። ወይትናገፉ፡።
ፍጥረተ፡።

ወሰበሰ;።

ሹሉ።

ወመጻሕፍት፡።

ነገራት፡።

ይጽሕፉ፡።

ኣጳምነገራቱዩ፡"“

ጸሳ፡

ለጽ.ድቅ፣

ሰዝ፡” ምሥመጢር፡።”

ዴመዴደጡ፡።

ወጺ።የሕጽፉ፡”።

ነገራ

ድዴጽሕፉ፡"

በርትዕ፡

“ሹሎ፡

ወጺትሚጥዩቹ"

ፀቢዶ፡"" ወጽ’ትሕስብዩ፡”

ወዴፈጥፉ፡

ዐቢያተ”

ወጺ’“ትሐሕስዉ፡።

ሄበ፡

በርትዕ”

8. ወይ
ይፌሬኣዩ"
ለጣዖፆትክሙመ፡

ክሳ”

ለ“ጋጢጸነ

ኣስመ፡።

ነገረ፤ ርት'ዕ፤

ጻኩያት፡

ወይዴሔስጪ፡

ዲዷደበ፡ ነገራቲሂሆሙ፡

ልሳናቲሆሙ፡
ይጽሕፉ፡።

1s

ወጽይቐልጡ፡
ሹሎ፡"

ዘቁዳሚ፡

my (save that # reads #:). Other MSS. ti JAY
2 #18 (save that
/ reads ደጽሕፉi). ድ reads ስመ ሆለወ፤ ዴጺጸሕፍ፡ = ይጸሐሕፉ፡ ሀለወክሙ፥ ያ ዴጽሕፉ፡
ሀለዎሙ
22,0 read Wh;
sm
B-4F0. #9, 47/08 read "NY;
2 # reads WN; 0AY;
SF transi’after AC. 0H omit.
I omits.
5 Mireadls
በብር ወበጽል’“. ። ብርሃኔ ወጽእመት፤፡
፡ ያዞ 8. ድያ put in acc.
reads ለት
መዓልገ፡ ወሌሲት፣ = rags ሌሲ; and omits next five words.
15 9 reads RCA:
1.2 reas WN
5 mh B-g. £9, d read "AY
5 9 reads ርስ;
ዕ ወጺችርሥመቡ፡
14 mu, Be. Fg read lh". 9 YT:
« ትሕስበ፡
aa,
au omits. B reads “Pp:
15 m prefixes ©. w reads Yl;
7 w Omits next
Sixteen words.

5 a9cek.

The parallelism supports the above reading rather

than that of Zn, 0 Yሐስውዎ፤ ድ reads ትሓስውዎ፤ Sታሐስውያዎ፤
ታፓሕስውዎ፤ /ተጋስውዋ፤
"ያ9/ Other M55. read ወፀቢድi
ZYሐስብዎ;

7 Y4መብዋi

Hence the reading in the text.

xa Yሐስውኛ
2 reads Yሓስብዋ:

But the reading represented

by the other MSS. may be rieht. mf, 8~a9 read ሰብሐ: ("ዋ;i 0). a ሰብሐ;
£4 #98 read #Ai mw tN;
= መ reads JN". ፀረ JግጢAት".
Shad.
m9 read tN; ad WA;
#gmgh Be.
reads CN". e Cስ0S".
5 fF reads
ላሰ
5 g# omit.
7 Fm, DcI0XD. hb B-BcIoxb read 0q&;
i
Other MSS. AC:
5m,» read AYE:
0 g omits. w# omits the rest of the
verse.

iF reads hi

= ¢ reads LT:

c ይይ

#8.

sg omits.

m reads #3.
EY,
“Frm
0,00 read ብዙ: B-o5 ብWDY
98
Zn read DTA
e omits.
5 g reads D7
5 m reads &Més ny)
ጥረ
5 g reads 3045
58.
mg read ጻት
II,
# reads ድዴጽሕፉ፡
ይጸሐሕሩ፡
u mn reads ሰበ; au omiis.
5 ድ ሬጻs ሹሱ፡
rw omits.
5 a-Hu., # Bread yICt:i uYI1ራትt
4 F reads RXጽሕፍi
adds
tN: H.

። reads ዴጽሕhፉi

and trans. before

YI” and omits next seventeen words,

Sg,Ph Fra. mreads PYAR: 9 £300; abcdetin0 xa P00:
* reads
ነገራት፣፡
m reads በጽ.ፎቅ፡ ወበርት'ዕ፣ ሹሉ ያ በርትዕ፤ ዙሱ፡
" ድ eas ወይጽሕፍ፡
5 0 omits.

CIV. iz—CVL. 2.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኖኛኖቫ፡

9519

ጸስማዕኩ፡ በጻንቲጸሆሙ።
12. ወ።ኻልእጸ፡ ምሥጢረ፡፡ ጻጸምር፣ ኣስመ *“ለጻ.ሮፎቃን፡
ወሰጠቢባን፡። ድትወሀብ፡’ መጻሕፍታት፡"
ሰፍሥሓ፡ “ወለርትዕበ፡ ወለጥበብ፡።
ብዙሣ፡፡
13. ወሎመሙ“፣ ዴትወሀብ፡፡" መጻሕፍት’ ወጻሙንቲቱ፡" የጸምኔ፡" ቦመሪ“ ወዴትፌሥመሑ፡
ቦሙ ወ“ይት'በሠዩ;። ሎሙ
ጻድቃኘን፤ ኣሰ; ጳምኔሆመሙመ፡፡ ጸጻመፉ፡፣ ዙሉ፡። ፍናዋች፡
ርት0።።
ርV. በጻማንቱ፡” መዋዕል፡ ዴቤ፡ ሓጻንዚኣ፡” ይጸውዑፁ፡። ወያስምፁ፡።
ሰውሱደ፤ ምድር። በጥበቦሙመ፡።” ጸርኣዩ፡።“ ሎሙ
ጻስመ፡ ጸንትመ፥ መራሣያኒሆሙ፡።

ወ“0ሥያት;። ደበ፤ ዙባ” ም.ድፎር።
ሰዓሰም፡፤

በ“ፍናዋት፡።

ርትዕ፡

ውሱደ፤

ርትዕ ጸን።።

CVI. ወጻምድሣረ፡።

2. ኣስመ፡ ጸኔ”" ወወልድዩ፡ ገዴመር፡። ምስሌሆሙ

በሕዴወተመ፡"

ወ“ሰሳም፡።

ይክውንገ፤

ሰከሙመ፡፥

ተፈሥሑ

መዋዕል፡ ነሠመጸ፤ ወል.ፎዩ፡" ማቱሰሳ፡

CVT. Factum est au-

ሰወልዲዱ፣ ሳሜክ; ብኣሲት፤ ወፀንሰት፥ ኣምኔሁ፡ ወወለደት፥።
ወልደ፡።
2. ወኮኔ፤ ሥጋሆሁ፥ ጸዓዳ ከመ፡ ጸስበሕሐትያ፡
ወ“ቁዪሕ፤” ከመ፡ ጽ፤ጌ፤ ረጃ፡ ወጻጸጕረ፤ ርኣሱቡ፡ ከመ፤ ፀምር"

(“ጦ [ሩum i TCamecn
RN
<i fliu(s), 2. cui oculi

ጸዳ:

sunt

ተወ“ድምድማሆሁ:

ሠናይ:

AOደንLሁit+=

ወሰበ

sicut

radi

solis,

1 9 reads in nom.
። 9 reads ለጠቢባን ወጻድ“., ። ለጻፎ” oኳ!y.
2a, Bas
read "UM; af omit.
‘Ft 8-Benx.
reads "EY; m,beIrnx "EY # "E15
uw omits.
° @ trans. Fr reads DAC ATA:
። reads OAC only and omits next
word and all verse 13 except the words AA; APP
5 reads ብዙ;
i
reads DE;
srgmt 9 reads ሁብ:
8 "U0;
? mh8. #29 read &1Y:
m adds Dra; Ri
ZFadds ሰፍሥሓ፤ ወሰርት'0፡
0 au. B reads ©.
i
reads RL

sz #Z omits.

ይትሕሠዩ፡

"። reads ምስሌሆመ፥

ዙሱ፡

9 trans. tN; ater CY0;

RJዚHRብሔር:

ms 8-X add ከመ

5 m omits.

# g omits.

15 Im, fehsly read

79,8 ያዞ ኔሪ read ጸም
5 ae omits.

0 am.

m8 prefix@.

a omits next two words.

reads
= s reads

52 2, cread £8.

5g, abcdefBiRIna. #9 read EN". m omits. #, 0% read ON.
4 mn reads
ሰብጻ፤ „ድ adds ኣስመ፤
5 # omits next two Words.
0 B~a., Fmt a read
RCAE; 9 ACAI
7 9 reads pራሒLPs
wu omits next four words.
=r.
mf @céጀFhkiIn,a read 0v2Y; 92x 0%Yi 05 Rw:
PPD OENIB SX
mgt Fsi0,ay read tt;
0 m adds ጽብብ:
u mg. Zig read JC:
5 Zn read &Pt;
3 2 reads ሰAan; and trans. after Ana;
I
MD
read በRNማYi
9 adds yi
Z9/።u add as a superscription Yi +o: 4

® m adds ብዙ:

9 reads NA:

1 9, a/05xyy read ABH:

= m adds ምሁ

Su.
bnx ይሕ:
Other M55. ቁይ;
40 s# omits next four words.
yy,
omit,
5 The second reference to Noah's hair in £P" is corrupt. wé&i is likewise corrupt for BA;
See verses 5, io. Hence 1 restore the text as follows: hap;
Aleሆ;i Agሓደ;i ROY".
So Lat. oculi sicut radi solis. I should add that #, 8 add

© before wéPi against £,g mg and that #9 add © before RORY against g my, 8.

$50

መጽጠፈ፡

CVI. 2-9.

ሃዛኛኻ፡
capilli autem

ክሠገ፡ ጸዕዶንቲሁ፡ ጸብርሀ፡ “ሹሉ፡ ቤገ፡፡ ከመ፡ ፀሓዶዴ፡
3. ወሰቤሃ፡፡ ትንሥይ፡
ወ'ፈ.ፎፉደ፡ በርሀ፡ “ሹሱ፡ ቤት ።፡
ኣምኣዴሃ።
ለመውሰለዷት፡። ወ’ከሠገ፣ ጸፉሆ፡ ተወችፍገረ፡"
ሰ“ኣንዚክ፡ ጽፎቅ።”
4. ወፈርሀ፡ ሳ"ጃሕክ፡ ጸቡሁ፡። ኣምኔሆ፡
ወኾኮዩ፡ ወመጽጸ፡ ኘJበ; ጸቡሀሁ፥ ማቱሳሳ።
5. ወይቤሉ አሄ
ወሲ.ፎኩ፡ ወልደ;። ውሱጠ፡፡ ወ“ዚኮኔ፡ ከመ፤ ሰብኳ፡ ወ“ድይመ
ስል፡ .ደቁቁ፡ መሳኣክተ፡

ሰማሣይ፤

ወፍጥረቱ፡

ካልኣት

eius can-

(di)diores in septies nive,
corpori autem eius nemo
hominum potest intueri. 1

ወ“ጺከኮ፤፡

ከማ ወጸዕደንቲሆ፡ ክከመ፡ ኣገሪሆ፡ ሲፀሓደ፡ ገፉ" ስቡሕ።
6. ወደመስሰኒ፡ ከመ ጺከኮኔ፡ ኣምኔዩ፡ ጸሳ፡ ኣመሳኣኳቫ፡ ውጻቱ፡
ወኣፈርህ፡ ከመ፡ ዚዶትገበር፡ መንካር፡ በመየዕሲሆ፣፥ ዲበ
መድር
7. ወደኣዜኒ፡ ሀለውኩ፥ ጸቡዩ፡ ጻስትበፉ0ክ፡”
ወኣስኣል፡ ኣምንቤክ፡ ከመ፡ ቸሖር፡” ኘግበ፡ *ሃኖክ፡ ጸበ፤፡”
ወ“ትስማዕ፡። ኣምኘቤሆ፡ ጸማነ፡። ኣስመ፡ ውኣቱ። ምስለ፡
መሳ
ምንባፉ።።
8. ወሶበ፡ ሰምፀዐ፡ ማቱሳላ ሃገረ
ወልዱ” መጽክ፡ ግቤየ፡ ውካተ፡ ጸጽኝፈ፡ ምድፎር፡ ጻስመ

3. et surexit inter manus
obstetricis suae et adoravit dominum viventem in

secula rIaudavit.1

4, et

timuit Lamech,

6. ne

non

ex eo natus

nisi nontius del,

esset
4, 5. et

ወመጻኣኩ፡ ንቤሆ፡ ወኣቤሉ፡ ናሆ፤ ሀሰውኩ፡ ወል.ፎዩ፡ ተጻስመ፤።
መጻጻከ፡ ንቤዩ።
9. ወጸውሥጸኒ፡ ወይቤ; በኣንት፡ “ጻህቅ፡

venit ad patrem suum
Mathusalem et narravit
illi omnia.
7. dixit Mathusalem: Ego autem
non possum scire nisi
eamus ad patrem nostrum Enoc.
8. quum
autem vidit Enoc filium
suum Mathusalem veni-

ዐቢይ;።

entem

ሰምዐ;

ክመ

*ህ፻;

መጻኣኩ፡

mga.

ቤ1፡

ንቤክ፡

ወጸርኝ፡

ወበኣኳንነ፣

ወሰማዕኩ፥

ራጻይ፤

2
። omits next six words.

#4, B read RACY:

5 ችላ; ቤት፤

generally.

ሀለውኩ

Other MSS. gh;

PY

‘2.

s 9.

ድ reads ለመወሲድ.ያት፣

ዕፁብ፡

ቃሉ፤።

በዘ፡።

9. ድ reads tሱ፡ ቤ1፡

ad se, [et] ait:
ደ ቫሉ

፣ሃ። ዙሴ፡

sr and s0
B omits next two words,
5 mgt8. #F reads ti @Y;
“2 omits.

7 ድ reads ኣምውስተ፣ ኣዴሃ፡

Other MSS. ሰ;

ልምኔሆ፡

ጳጸመወልፉት

# ለመዋሲ’
8 ለመወል.
፤ ለመወለ".
## reads YI¢i YIC; +S" is possibly corrupt for

2 £. Other MSS. omit.
in s# omits.
1 me reads
TOI; = oravit. Cf Latin in ver. 11 or "JH; = adoravit:; cf. Sr. 1. 27.
f omits verses 4~1x with the exception of the last three words
ኣግዚጸብሔር፡ ጽፎቁ፡
iz u omits rest of verse 4 and verses 5-11 with the exception of the
of ver. 21.
last three words of verse 11.

4 F reads tEi

5 0 reads tk;

nS

Fr

bcdgn read RA ጃ እጸሳ፡ ከመ
mn reads H. wm AAU.
7 2 reads nA:
fh
aéeFhIRIowab
omit.
and trans. ይመስል; after ሰማ;
nest ik. Other MSS. YC
® F omits.
5 2 prefixes ©.
06 prefix ©.
PIB.
TEA
5 መ reads ኖክ; ጸቡከ፡ ድ ጸቡ ሃኖኻ፡
= ድ reads ትስምዕበ፡
Other MSS. omit.

ላሙ
5

52g.

5 ድ reas ንብረቱ፡
reads Ph;

/ መንበፉ፡

25

3 = Bure corrupt for ga Ti.

adds ABH;

#7 BcnX

trans.

C{. Lat. « quid est quod venisti?

Hence read ቢAንY; ምንት;
an 9, % real BRL:
ዐባይ; {or ዐቢድዴ፤ ደ reads ጻህቀ፡ 0ዐቢ፤፡ 5 11ር፡ ዐቢዶ፡

51 Fmt, Save that # reads
55 m reads LH: w omits,

CVI. g=14.

መጽሐፈፉ፡

ዋረብኩ።

10. ወይጻዜኒ፡።

ጸቡዩ፣

ዛኛኻ፡

ስምዐኒ

251

ኣስመ፡

ችወልደ። ሰ“ሳሕ፡፡ ወል.ፎዩ፡ ወልድ፡’ “*ወጺኮ፤፡ ዘጸምሳሰሱ፡፡
ወፍጥረፒቱ፡ ጺከኮኔ፣ ከመ፡ ፍጥረት፤ ሰብኣኳ፡ ወሣብፉ፡፡ ድዶጸዐዲኗ
ጻምጸስጋኃት.ያ፤ ወ“ዴቁይዴሕ፡’ ኣምጽጌ፡ ረዳ ወጻጸቱረ፡ ርኣሰ፡
ዶጻ0ዲ፡ ኣምፀምር፡ ጸ0ዳ፤ ወ"ጸዕዶንቲሆሁ፡ ከመ ኣገሪሃ፡
ሰፀሓደ፡

ወ“ከሠት፤።

11. ወችገንሥመጸ፡

ጸዕዴንቲሆሁ፤

ውስት;

ጻዴሃ፡

ወ’ጸብርሀ፡።

ችሉ

ሲ“መውለኗት፡"

ቤት።።

ወፈትሐ፤።

ጸፉሆሁ፡ ወባረከ ሰጻኘዚጸ፡ ሰማይዴ።”
15. ወፈርሀ፡ “ጸቡሁሆ፡
ሰ; ወጕኮዩ;። ሣቤዩ;።” ወጺጸም፤፤ ከመ ኣምኔሆሁ፡ ውኣቲቱ፡
ጸሳ፡ አምሰ ኣመሳባኳኳተ፡ ሰማድዴ፤ ወናሆ፡ መጻኣኩ፤ ገቤክ፡።
ከመ? ታዴይ.ፎበኒ፤ ጽፎቀ።።”
13. ወ“ጸውሣኣኩ፡። ይሃ ሄኖሕ፡
ወጻቤሉ፡;።

ይደኔፎስ፤

ወዘንተ፤ “ወዳጻኩ፥

ኣፃዚኳኣ፡”

ንዲሰተቱ፡።”

ርጺኩ፡። በ“ራጸይ፡

ዲጁበ፡

ምድር

ወ“ጸይዳዕኩክ፡

ኣስመ፡

በቸውልዲዷኗ፡።

ሰዚያሬጥ፡። ጸቡዩ;። ጸሣለፉ፡። ኔገር፡ ለጻግዚኣዩ፡።

ሓጻመልዕልት፡”

ሰማይ።

14. ወነዮመ፡።

“ይገብፉኗ፤ Jገጢጸተ፡

ወየኝገልፉ፡" ሥመርዐገ፥ ወ።“ምስሰ፡ ጸንስገ፥ ተደመፉ፡ ወ“ምስ
ሴሆን፡ ይገብፉ፡ ጋጢጸት፡ ወጸውሰቡ፡ ኣምኔሆኝ፡።” ወጻምኔሆን፤።
i# omits next Word.

፡ መ aባd ስምዓኒ
+ 0p read AY;

2 #, vy read DAE:

b B~a Hዘጺኮኔ፡ ጸም .
i0 # omits.
um.

TNE I BORIC
2,8 read AIéሆ;

ጸብርሃ፡

erm, B-Bceloxb.

uid est quod venisti ad
mes natek :9:, dix, 10%
Ouod natus est filio suo

‘nomine1 Lamech (filius)
cui oculi sunt sicut radi

solis, capillils] eius candidiores septies nive, cor-

pori autem eius tnemo
hominum potest intueri, 1
11, et surexit inter ma-

nus obstetricis suae 1eadem hora, qua procidit de
utero matrissuae, (et) oravit1dominum Viventem in
secula et laudavit.
et timuit Lamech.
et dixit Enoc:

12,
13.

Nontia-

tum est mihi, "fil,1quia

5 m adds Ana;
= me omits,
ER
2,5 read Dጺhy; ምሰ:
5
reads 4ብረi JU;
2 omits.
5 m reads MY;
Sm. 2B read

BceloxB read WA:
5 greads Vሲችi
ny
7 £. reads mOAXY; m8 moNXY:

adqf/ Bik 0,a8. 8g bees read AምውስY
15 mm adds ውስት

20 gé
2 With this word 9 s# resume after their long omissions.
img
Bcerloxy (ABU: xD). #Z reads ABN;

omits next thirteen words.

adfF hin» read AR.
= For the next five words mu reads hpi Ay; NE:
ሓኣሰ፡ ጸመ
3 9 reads Jy;
#ያFያm,}. 9 Bh read RምሰN
5 2 omits.

25 9 omits next three words.
ኣገዚጸብሔር

7 m reads ROIAMP;

5 aw omits.

5 0 read

a # omits next five words.
ShIROBwWy., 2 reads CAS mg, abc geF8Inx D8 DC.
5 reads AR:
[Ly
Srp B-abcx.
ፀዕረቷ ትውልዲ
'Z reads ትው". መ ቤች፡ ውዱ
Srru.

0 dg reads hዳሰYi

Other MSS. Pe:

wu omits.

5 g omits,

s# omits next eight words.

7 m reads

ጸግልፉ፡ ያ ጸገልፍ፡
SF, Petinak my abcdg#ox read AAJHA: » AAJHA:
5 ረይ read መልፀልገ፡
። መሳጻክት፡
0 wu reads DYNA; 1” J and omits
43
1 q omits.
Zan
next seven words. For tJ
57 reads ሐል:
read © only. dg omits. X trans. AFP" after DA.

9595
ወሰዱ፤ ፎደቁቀ።

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛኛኻ፡

ዐቢይ

ይከውን

15. “ወሐቱል፡

CVI. I4—CVIH. 1,

ዲጁበ፡

Tpost quingentos annos 1
15.

mittet deus catacli-

በ“።ጸሐዷኗ፡፣ ዓመትች።
16. ወፆይከውን። “"ዝሽውልቱ፡ ወልድ"
ዘተወልደ
ሲከካመ። ውጻቱ።። ዶትርፍ፡።
ዲጃበ፡ ምድር
ወሠሰስቱ፡ ደቁ
ይድሣኒ፡ ምስሴሆ፡። ሶበ፡ ይመውቱ
ሸሱ፡ ሰብኳ፡ ዘቷደበ፡። ምድር፡ ይድፎሣን፤ ውኣቱ፡ ወደቁቁ።፣
17. ወ“ድዴወልዲዱ፥ ዷበ፡ ም.ፎር፣ ኣሰ፡ ያርብሣ፤ ጸኮ፤ ዘመንፈስ

smum

adquae, ut deleat

erunt

illi tres

filii, tet

ጸሳ፡ ዘሥጋ፤ ወዴከውን፡ “መቅሠፍ፣ ዐቢዴ፡" ጁበ፡ ምድር”
ወችች'ኝፀብ፣ ም.ድር፡ ኣም“ሱ፡፡ ሙስና።
18. “DEAL:

erunt

nomina

filiorum

ዙሱ፡፡ ምፎር፡

ወማዩ፡

ጸዴፎግሣ፡፡ ይከውን፡።

ወ።“ሕኾል፡

ዐቢዶ፡፡

Tomnem creaturam! XL
(diebus sicuty ostendit
oculis nostris.

16. et

eius Sem Cham Jafeth,!

ወልዱ፤።

18. et ipse vocabitur Noe,

ውጸቲቱ፡፡ በጽፎቅ፡። ወ።ጺጸውዕ፡። ስሞ፣፤ ኖሣ፤ ኣስመ፡ ውኣቱ
ዴደክውን፣፡ ለከመ፡። ተራፈፌ፡። ወ።ውኣቲቱ፡ ወደቁቁ፡ ይፎሣፉ፤።

{gui interpretatur requies,

ኣሙበስና፤ ኣንተ ትመጽኣ፡ ዷበ፡ ም.ፎር፡። ምሱ”

in archam,

ጸዴ.ፎዐ፡።

ሲወልፎክ፣

ወኣምች፡።

ዓመዛ;።

ሳ’ካ፡

ኣንት፤

ኣስመ፡

ሀለወኝ፣።

ዘተትወልደ፡

quia

ኃጢጸት።”

ቫችፌጺጸም፡።

requiem

prestabit

*ጁበ፡

መድር፡። በመዋዕሲሆ።
19. ወጻም.ድሣረዝ፡ ትክውን፡። ዓመዛባ፡ ፈድፋደ” ኣምልጻንጊ
ትፈጸመገ፡ ቁዋዳሚ፡። “ደበ; ምድር፡። “ኣስመ፤ ጸጸምር፡ ምሥጢራት፣ ቅዲሳን" ኣስመ፡
ውቲ; ልፃዚኳ፤“ ጸርጸዩ፤፡ ወጸዴ.ፎ0ኒ፡፡ ወ።በጻፍጸፈ፡ ሰማይዶ ጸንበብኩ።
CVIL. PCA:

፤ .# rcads ሐቶሰ፡ ዐቢዩ፡

ያ ወኘኝጕቡዙ፡ ዐቢዩ

“ € omits next Six words through

+ # reads በoyt; NE
5 g reads "EG
5 su omits.
0 Pg,
u F reads Hog:
# omits.

hmt., a# omits next three words + ©.
5 £,eB8n omit.
and omits next three words.
? # aባd5 ፉበ፡ ሱ፣ ምድር

ያሕል
‘2 omits.
Z reads Wውaቱ:i Hoi
15 sé omits next two words.

Sg,0.
Hi

Other MSS. omit.
« Hoke:

15 # omits next eighteen Words.

UNE By

rad መው

5 0 reads £0;
5 Fig omit next six words through hmt.
7 omits the next three words.
II
BX
7% ads ነብፉ፣ ዲበ ምድር
#9 put in acc. iu omits next two Words.
= mf, B, gw read AE:
£ eh:
5 mgf,8. gu read AY; 1 XY; u omits next eight words.
= » reads
ዴወጽል፡
5 0 omits.
5g. 2 reads Yo&; mg, 8 ትረፈ፡ f reads ችራ
ግ # reads ይድ
=! agds ምሱ ©.
0 w reads ዓqa0d;
5 aw prefix ©.
1 9 reads PR: # ወድhውንi am.
25 @ reads Si
wu omits next ten words.

omit.
SFB.
0 # adds ይከውን

mu,oy omit ቢይ:
1 # reads AED:

5 mh B. #reads 0NAወትi
after PEC), B~-eo.

words throueh hmt.
Z omits.

£ 0Aውጓ፡

5 0ሰወነ

#9, e0 read "A;

A Fm (save that m trans. TY,
5 a adds በ0ፀመd፡

F omits next ten

3 a omits.
5 2 reads hk;
8 m trans. after PES
5 /reads £ቤሆPa.
4 2m omit.
0 9 reads pዱሰሄ፡ ። በመዋዕሲሆ፡

CVII. r—CVILUL. 3.

መጽሐፈ፡

ህኖ

993

ጽሑፈ፡ በ'ሳዕሴሆሙ፡።፡ ጻስመ፤ ትውልደ
ጳምትውልድ፣ ትጴብስ፡ ኣስከ ችገንሣኣ፡፣
ቸውልደ፡
ጽፎቅ፡፡ ወጸበሳ፡። ትትሐጐል፡
ወሣጢጸት፡ ትትለሰሐስ፡፡ ኣምደበ፡ ምድር
ወዙሲ፡ ሠናይ; ይመጽልኳ፡ ዲጁቤሃ።።
2. ወይኣጻዜኒ፡። ወልእድፎዩ፤ ውር” ጸይፎያ
ሰ“ወልድክ፡ ባሕ“ ኣጳስመ፡ ዝወልፎ፡" ዘተወልደ" ወልደ፡ ዚጸሆሁ፡ ውኣጻቲቱ፡ ጸማን፡"
ወጺከኮኔ፡

ሕሰተ።

3. ወ“ቦበ፡;።

ሰምበ፤

ማቱሰሳ፤

ነገረ; ጸቡሆ፥

ሃኖሕ፤ ኣስመ፡"፡

በሣቡልኣ፡”

ጸርጸዩ፡። “ዙሉ፡ ፃብረ፡ ወገብጸ፡ ወጸርጸዩ። ወሰመዩ;። ስሞ፤ ሰ“ዝኩ፡። ወል.ፎ፡ ኖሣ፤ ኣስመ;
ውቲ” ተያስተፌሥሓ፡። ሰሲም.ፎር፡ ኣምሹሲ፥ ሕኾላ።።
CVIIL. nai” ጽሐé;”
ዘጻሐፈ፡ ሄኖኳ፡ ሰወልዲ፡ ማቱሳሳ፡ ወ“ለጻሰ።” ይመጽጹ፡
ጳምድሣሬሆ፡
ወ።ና3ንቅቡ፡።
ሥርዐች፡። በደጋሪ፤ መዋዕል።
2. ኣሰ፡ ገበርክመ፡ ሠሪዩ;። ችጸንሑ፡። ሲኣሉ፡። መዋዕል
ኣስከ“ ይችትፌፊጸመ፡። ኣሰ፡ ይገብፉ፣ ሓጳኩዩ፡ ወዶትፌጸም፡። “ጋይሎመ፡ ለመጸብሳን።።
3. ወ“"ጸንትሙበሰ፤ ጽንሑ ኣስከ፡ ትሐልፍ። ጋኃጢጸት፡። ኣስመ፤ ሀሉ ስሞሙ” ይደመሰስ፡።
“ኣመጽሕሐፈ፡ ሕይወት፡
ወ“ “አመጻሕፍት፡
ቅዲሳን“ ወዘርጸመ፡፥ ዴይትሐሕጕኮል፡ ሰዓሰም፡

1 0D omit.
= mw omits next four words.
* # reads TOA!
‘BR
Zim? read AN: uD.
5 # reads YR; u trans. after ጽEY:
5 0B read
ጻድቃን
7 # omits next two words.
5 dg omits.
SFR
FBIRInDv wa
(save that 2 reads YA"). 9/5, apcdgeoxy read YY;
wu omits next six words.
1 e omits.

u a trans. RRA;

ደበ፡ ምድር

SFZ/u.

next six words.

5 mg

ወልኢፎ፣ ውጻቲ፡ ወወልእፎ፡
ኻካ0በ፡
words.

before ft;

mg,Bread Ci
B~a.

# reads HOE:

i5 72 omits.

Zp read RR”.

x prefixes wFሰላ;
s VoA.Ehi

7 w reads DAY:

» F reads

1 etrans.
a ከመዝ:

ax 0A.

w omits
a ho:

5 2 reads

15 g reads hm;
0 a. B reads HAA:
1 £ omits. # omits next four
= ‘This is the text of # save that it has compressed Ae; PIAA; into

ንብርጸ፡ ኣያ reads ሹሉ 7ብረ፡ / 9/0 x5 ሹሉ ብረ፡ ወገብጸ፡ ርጺየዩ፣ ሪ/5፣ቋ።a
#" (a omits) 3" ወርAFi 1ብጸ፡
a rans. C" 1.
m yገሮ፤ ሹሎ: ገብጸ፤ ወጸርRዮ;
g WN; only.

35 FmIH

FBR,

Zu, B#Bs8 read ሰመ;

«# omits next word.

i a-gu, cdIFBERInoak. gu, abpw read A:
e HN.
=“ ¢ agds ድሣኖ: ©.
25 mp8. #Zgw read Ph". Corrupt for YIM; = Biayaraves as in LXX (or
perhaps dvayiéet = "3". Our text had thus a paronomasia on the name Noah (3).
7
mu. 98 read hkል
5 2 prefixes ©.
5m adds Hy;
0 g reads
AA (sic).
1 Z reads POY;
5 a omits next eight words.
EN PO iey

MSS. omit.

ያያ.

Other MSS. በat፡

መ reads ትጽንጤ፡፥

56 # reads DAaNh:

5,8, #9 read AY".
two words.
% aD trans.

/ 9 ወትጸ".
7

wk.

5g.

m reads AH:

gFmiread "Am;

9 "Rm

mm ወሰደት".
/ ይት".
# omits together with next
n a. B omits.
uF reads ThA
= s omits.

u omits next eleven words.
3 e,a% trans. after RE.
ያያ
B-aF
መ reads ይደምስስ፡
9, a/rx ዴደምሰስ:
5 ድ.
9% read ጳመጻሕፍተ፡
(ጸመጽሐሕፈ፡ ኋ) ሕያዋን
።፣ ኣአመጽሕፍ፤ ወ. Bx omit.
15 mg (save that for

ቅዱሰን / reads ቅዲሰት፥), ፡.ይ.
ቅዲሰት፡

ፀ-*፣ +8 ጸመጻሕፍት፣

ርር ci. 2.

ድ reads መጽሐፈ

ቅዲኗሳን፡ ("ሰት ቃን).

ቅዱስ፡

፣ጻጸመጽሐፈ፡ ቐዱዷሰን፤፡

ያ ጳጻመጻሕፍ1
+ ቅፎሳን፡

524

መጽሐፈፊ፡

ወ“መንፈሰቲሆመ፡፡
ወ።“በጻሰት፡

ይትቁተሱ፡፡ ወይጺጸርኙ፤፥

}.ፎ፡፡ ጳስመ፡

ጺሀሉ፡

ዛኛኻ፡
ወየጸወድጢ፡

ህዩ፡ ምድፎር።፣

CNVIII. 3-17,
በመኻካኔ፡ በድው

4. ወ።ርጺኩ፡፣

ዘጺያስተርጺ፡"

በህየ? ከመ፤

ደመና"

ዘጺይትረጸዴ፡" ኣስመ፡። ኣምዕመቁ፡። ዚኳህልኩ፡'፡ 1ተሳዕሰ፡ ነጽሮተ" ወ“ላህበ፡ ኣሳት፡"
ርጺኩ፡። “ኣንዘ፡ ይነፎዶ፡" ስቡሕ፤ ወ“ዶተክበቡ፡” ከመ፡ ጸፎባር፡ ስሓን; ወዴት ሀወኩ፡
ሰፊ፡ ወሰፌ።
5. ወ።ችስጻልሕዎ፡ ሰሄጀ።ጻመሳባኣኻት፡ ቐዱሰን፡። ኣሰ፡ ምስሴዩ፡ ወኣቤሉ፡፡
“መንት፡ ውኣቲቱ፡። ዝስቡሕ፡” ኣስመ፡ “ዚኮ ሰማዩ; ጸሳ፡። ላሳህበ፡ ኣሳነ፡ “ባሕቲቱ
ዘደነፎፎ፡። ወቃሰ፡ “ብካይ፡ ወጽራሕ፡” ወጸውያት፡። ወ።ሕማም፡ ንል”
6. ወዶቤሰ፤፡
ዝንቱ” መኣኳኘ፡ ዘትሬx፡ በህዩ፡። ዴትወደዩ።። መናፍስተ ኃጥጻን;። ወጽፉፋን፡ ወላሰ፡
ዴገብሩ፡ ኣኩዩ፡ ወኣሰ፡ ደመይደጠ፡ “ሹሉ ዘ’ሣገረ፡። ኣፃግዚኣ፡። በጸፈ፡። ነቢያት” ኣሰ”
ሀሰዉ፡" ዙሱ፡። ዴሻገበፉ።።
7. ኣስመ፡። ሀለዉ፤ ኣምኔሆመ፡። ጽሑፉን ወልኩዓን፡

1 ያመ. ድ reads 1EሰL".
9/5, 8 መSፍስቲ".
2m, 8, # reads ድች",
/ይትሕጕሴሱ፡ ወዴደትቁ". ።, / ይትሕፐኮል፡ ("ኮቤ dh) which # trans. before mS”.
i
reads Yi
u omits next seven words.
= Gdparoe which is the LXX rendering
of nn in Gen. i. 2, The rendering of na (Gen, i. 2)is found twice in xxi. 1, 2 (see

Greek).
5 Emended from ANY; 1&5 which is the reading of all the MSS. save
g, apc%. 9 emends into በa}Y; 1&5 and a pc x into ቢኣaሰYi LEA: The following
clause AN; RUN; &c. shows that the preceding words ANY; 1ዲ.5 constitute a further
description of the place of punishment. This chaotic flaming hell is beyond the confines
of the earth. See xviii. 12; Xx, 1, 2.
5 reads AAO: 2 UN;
7 2 reads nei
5 a trans, after (Ut;
ay, OFBIRInvXa.
bcde read Vi 9, 05 omit.
10 9 reads በደyS;
1 The fact that we have HANTCA; eleven words before
implies that there was here a different word in the Greek
— probably oy Stacpayés.

aw omits the negative in this word and next five words.

5 ድ reads ምብዝኝ፡ የመቁ፡

ያ ኣመዐቱ

52 omits.

# 2 prefixes ©.

a reads ©.

5 e trans.

[ have

obelized the words as corrupt. They give no intelligible sense. They may be
a corruption of AYA: JRC: = eireiy rijy mepoxilv airot, or for AOASUW: 1ጽC:

15 Zn omit,

Tzu.

Other MSS. ANE:

and omits next five words.

9 # reads ድብ

s & omits.

5 u reads HPiድE:

2 0 reads ስቡሕ፤

= g reads

ትስጻልኩ፡
5 w omits. F reads ስሓ
4 au reads YY;
iis:
Zm read Hስሕi #£ Hh: (sic).
25 su omits.
7 w, dg omit,
0
apcdgsloxas.
#Z reads REE: በቶች:
mu read HErE.E:i “Fhtnv HAY
ባሕቲ
a. B trans.
mg trans. a reads hy;
x a reads 'H. x Hh
5 Fgu read Vt:
Smt.
£9gu read RትወNዲ:
# au omits next four Words.
5 miu, 8. eg read IA;
5 au. B reads AJHAብሔC:
# omits together
with next word.
7 ድ reads በ2
Sex read iቢEWi # omits next four words.
5 F reads H.

o 2 reads UN; and trans. after YI.

through hmt.

um.

and trans. before WN:
ኣምኔኻመ፡

9 omits next four words

Fiያread WN

Other MSS. omit.

See note 40.

5 wu omits next two Words.

5 ድ reads &Y'I10C:
# F reads

CVIIL, y=.

መጽሐፈ፡

ዛና

9555

።ሰዕለ፡ በ'ሰማይ፡ ከመ፡ ያንብብዎሙ፡፡ መሳኣኳት'፡ ወያልኳምፉ፡፡ ዘሀሉ፡ ዴብጽሑሖሙ፡፡ ሲ'ጋጥጳኝ፡
ወለመናፍስት፡፡

ትኙታኘን፡

ወኣሰ፡

ጸሕመመሙመ፡።፣

ሥጋሆመ“፡፣

ወተፈድዩ፣

በንበ፡’

ጸመላሳኳ፤

ወሰ; ግሥ
“ኣምልኩያን፣ ሰብኳ፤።
8. ኣሰ፡ ያፈቅርዎ; ሰጸምላካ፣፡ ወ“ዚወርቁ፡
ወጺብፉሪረ፡ ጸፍቁሩ፡። ወጺ“ችሉ፡ ሠናዩ፡'፡ ዘውስተ ዓሰም፤ ጸሳ፡" ወሀበ ሥጋሆሙ ሰጻዕር።
9. ኣሰ;። ልምጸመ፤ ኮኒ፡ ዚ“ፈትዉ፡"” መባልዕ1፡ ዘ።ውስተ፡”" መምድር፡ ጸላሳ። ረሰዩ፤
ንፍስተመ፡።

ከመ፤ “መንፈስ፡

ሓፃዚኣ፡፡

ወ“ተረካበ፡።

ኣንተ፡፡ ተሕልፍ”

መንፈሳቲሆመ፡።”

ወዘን1፡ 0ቀቡ፡ ወ“ብዙጋኃ;። ጸመከሮመሙመ፡።

ንጽሕ”

ከመ፡

ዴይባርክዎ፡”

ሰስሙ።

10.

ወሉ”
በረከተመ፡ ነገርኩ፡ በመጻሕፍት” ወ“ዐሰዮመሙ፡። ሰጸርኣጻስቲሆሙ፡። “ጻስመ፤
ኣሱ; ተረካቡ፡። ያፈቅርዎ; ለሰማይ፡ ኣምጻስትንፉሰሙመ፡። ዘበ።ዓሰም፤ ወኣገዘ፣ ዴትክየዱ፤"
ኣምኣኩያን፡

ሰብኳ፡

ይበርኩ“ኒ፡።“

ወሰምዑ"

ኣምኘንቤሆመ፡

“ትዕዴርተ፡

11. ወይኣዜኒ፡። ኣጴውዕ፡ መናፍስቲሆመ፡

ወጽርፈተ፡"

ወ“ሣሠሥፉ፡።

ልንዚ፤

ሰሄራን፡ “ኣምት ውልፎ፣

አንተ“

፡ 2 rads ሳ0ሲ፡ ውስተ፡ ። ሀለሰዉ፡ ሳዕሲ፡
2 my, B. Z,Z9u read ያYብCርዎn:;
5 wu omits.
‘Ft B-coy. mg
coh read 0X.
5 2 omits.
SeFhRInx,a

read AS ENY; # omits with next word.
7 9 reads hw
s wu omits next
four words.
22. m reads Nm; 9/, 47 5i8In0py,a8 £0; “AX:
ayex
ኣምኝበ፡
"reads AለY፡
reads ሐሰረ፡ ።# OJስፉ፡
= 2 reads 030i ኣኩ”
ሰ".
reads AምNብAi AW" and omits next three Words.
5 a~, cFBIRnopywya.
{reads “pi abpdex read REC:
ag.
#8 omit,
5 mg. tw,
adeFhihIx,a read REY:
#,c4n0y9 RY:
aw omits next four words.
5p. Z9 read fiw.

trans. Re" before CY;
FnWhN: wa];
pi)

abpcefPnx, gh dFhsRgpኮopyay read AA 9 omits.
5 9. 2 reads AA:
mfAat;i uD. 7 AN; B PAA u omits next two words.
15 0 reads ትፈት
0 # reads 0.
“mi, 8A. ZZ, read AA
=e. # reads: Other MSS.
ርኣስሙ፥
words.

2መ9።. ደ read ትሐልፍ፡
። የሐልእፍ፡ 8-። Jለፈት፡
= omits next five
“mB. #9 read ብW4: £ በብWY:
” 9 reads RመhርPs
"8,5 read

ላJዚአጸብሔር፡
9 omits.
7 9,6 ድድ
ead ትረኻበ፡
/ ዚረካበ፡
ሃ። ረኻበ፡
Smt bce/BigoxkL. #9, adina read መeS&hስt".
ፃ reads Jጽሕት'፣ / 5 በንጽሕ፤፡
” 9/። read ይባርኩ:
= 29 read ti
በመጻሕፍቲሆ;

and trans. after 0b fa

። ተረክባ፡
5 a~g#
= ms reads

see note 33. ad read በመጽ@hé:;

# omits

next two words.
S29/, 8B. ig reads qtr m reads Otis
= ms prefixes ©.
{1writes ENE; above RC.
5 £9/u,l8. £ reads AA » hi Aa:
¢ adds
AaንH:

adds ኣሰ

57 e reads 6".

55 m reads NIX:

% reads ምስለ
2. All other MSS. HA.
next two words + ©. Better read ዴሰ;
at omits next three words.
5 read JAE:
word, or read with 94.

that 9 reads ትው)

S gomit.

Here #Z ends.

/, 8, # reads ትውል:

Gg

ፍሰ

For A

0 9 reads ት Nt.E:
an s# omits
= ድ reads ትፀበድርታት፣ ወጽርፈፓታ፡
Better read tI; and omit next
AH:

5 5 omits.

። OAትውAE:

5 mg (save

996

መጽሐፈ፡

ብርሃን፡

ወጻቐልጥ።

ከመ፡፡

ይዴደሱ፡

ሰኣጻለ፤ ተወልዱዷ፡

ሰሃዴማኖተሙ።

ዛኛ፡

በጽልመት
12.

ኣሰ፡

CVIIL. 2-15.
በሥጋሆሙመ፡፡

ወ።ጸወፀጸሙ፡፡

በብፉህ፡፡

ጽተፈድፎዩ።፡

ብረ

ብርሃን።

ለኣሰ፡

ጸፍቅርዎ። ለስምዩ፡ ቅዷስ፤ ወጓነብር፡ “ጸሐደ፡ ጸሐዶደ፡፡ ውስ1፡ መንበረ፡" ሕክብረ፡፤ ዚጸሆሁ።
19. ወ“ይትወሕሐውሑ፡” በ“ጸዝማኘን፡ ዘ“ጸልቦ፡" ጐልቁ፡" ኣስመ፡ ጽድቅ ሹነኔሆሁ፣ ሰጸምላሳሕ፡
ሓስመ፡

ሲመሃይምሪን፣፡

ሃይዴይማኖት፡ ዶሁብ፡፡ “በማሣ.ደረ፡ ፍናዋተ፡

ርትዕ።"

14.

D“ ይመ

ጓደዎሙመሙ፡'፣ ሲኣሰ፡ ተወልዲዷ፡። በጽልመት" ዴትወደዩ፡” በጽልመት" “ልገዘ፡ ዴትወሐውሑ፡
ጻድቃን
15. ወዴጻርኙ፡። ወ።ይሔሬሮኣጸይዎመ፡።” ኃጋጥጻን፡ ኣንዘ፡። ይትወሐውሑ፡”
ወናሐውፉ፣ ኣሙንቱ።፤;። በኘበ;። ተጽሕሩፉ፡። ሎመ፡”" መዋዕል፡ ወጸዝማን፣
“ራስልና; ሣቡጻነ'፣ ዘሄኖሕ፡

1 9 reads AወATi
ጺፈቅጂ፡ ። ይትፈደዩ፤

mn, PrB. #9 read ሥጋ", # AD,
። ጸጺትፈድዩ፤
‘“a-u. u reads ©. Bበhመi

£m, ap de#koxy read ABBR
moa.
# reads ACU:
prefix ሲ. a reads ny
°a-u., w,8 read PፈቅርP:i
• 9 reads Rs
add ካብር፣

ያ reads ድወሕውሑ፥

= / reads ሲሲ

908. # reads
/ucBiina.
# 00CU:;
79s

Nሐዱs
09 read ARs

8-n
"Fu.

2, ፀ-8 read ልቅ
ሃ ጐልቁ። ደ ሦእቁ፡
"9 omits,
"Le #2 read በማሣደር:
ወ (9 omits) &ናዋት; ርትO:
= በማሣደር ወበርትዕ፡
። በፍናዋኖ፡ ርትዕ፡፣ 8 በማሣደሪ፡
ፍናዋት፡ (ፍንዋት፡ ዕ) ርቶዓነ፡

7 ፀ~a. 9 reads ይeጺይዎms

ዴሬጻየመ

'8 ዜ ads ግጥጳን፡

/ ርጳይደዎመ፡

through hmt.

0 h8.

dg prefixes ©.

#

£ PCA

mia

is #, c omit next two Words

m9 read YON;

% PB,

a reads

ወጻድ" ደት'ወ’. ያ ras ጻጌንዘ፡ ዴወሕጢሑ፡ (sic) ጻ" and ። ወጻንዘ፡ ድዥወሐወሑ፡ ጻ.
9 reads OAH: £YPAሣOL; and omits the next six words after &#YP” through hmt.
5 #58. Fmt m read RACH: 9 (see note 21) u omit.
5B. gu read CA
mn Lርጳይዎ:;
ae omits. 9 reads AH:
5 m/w. # reads ሐው
B በርሁ
=m omits.
ግ 0 omits.
= 9, e read hoi
gm. Other MSS.
ተጽሕፈ
so a omits.
n Fm save that for Nt: 4" £ reads AE: SAY:
ፎል: ግበጸባ፡
9 ads ትፈጸመ፤ በዝዩ፡ ረኣይደ፤ ሣቡጸት፥ ዘሄኖክ፣፡
ሃ ፕፈጻመ፡ ዘሄኖህ፡
5,8 read TR;

ጽሐፈ;

yn: ቢይ;

+ በዩ; ፈጸመ; ራ0t; #2hi

Other M55. omit.

BRPFENDIN.

ON

VI:

The three lists of the fallen angels given above in E vi. 2, G™, and Ge, go
back to one and the same original, In E lxix. 2 the same list reappears. In the
process of transmission, however, many corruptions and transpositions of the text
have occurred. ln the main the same order is observed in vi 7; lxix. 2 and Gs.
But a very different order is presented by Gs. As Lods (ro6~i1o?) has observed
the names in G were from the third onward written in four columns. These were
read from left to right by E and Gs but from top to bottom of each column by Gs,
Within Gs and Gs certain transpositions have occurred. These will be made clear
by the following Table s—

(2)

(2)

E lxix. 2

፤. ሰምያዛ

2. ጸርጣቁፉ፡

3. ተጸርን

(3)

4. ኮክብጴዴል፡

(4)

uy
Gs
Gs

1. ሰሚጸዛሽ፡
1. Zeuta(ds
1. Seuata

2. ጸራኪበ፡
2. ATapkov®
2, Apagdk

3. ተራጃሌዜል፡
3. ApaxX
3. TKeuBpé

4. ኮክቢዶል፡
4. XeBaBA
0. ተXexXapuiA
(viii, 3Xexa1k)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

5. ተጡፉዜስል፡
5. ጣሚሌል፡

6. ፉምያስል፡
6. ራሚሌስል፡

ሃ. ዳንያል፡
ሃ. ዳንጴል፡

8. ተኔቃሌል፡
8. ጴሌዜቁሌል፡

0. በራቕሌስል፡
0. በራቂቄዩል፡

5. T Opaukualuy

6. PauX

14. Tau

18. Paul

Gs wanting
5. AaveiA

8. Zaki

0. BaAkሪA

IO. ECexm

15. BapakunN

(viii. 3 Zaguilx)

(5)

and in viii. 3

(n)

(3

(4)

10. RRA:
10, ጸሰሌስ፡

፲1. ጸርማሮስ
፲፤. ጸርማሮስ፡

12. በጠርያል፡
፲2. በጣርጴል፡

14. ሐናገዜል፡
፲3. ጸናንጹዜስል፡

10, "ACaAEA (viii, 1
"ACanA)

11. Papuapés

I2. "AbapulA

13. Ayaynuds

10. Aredእ

6. Apeapés (viii, 3

11. BarpaN

10, Ayavgvd

Aphapes)

APPENDIX

258

(15)

ON VL. 7

(20)

(27)

(x8)

፲5. ጡኩርዜስል፡
14. ዘቄሌስል፡

16. ሲሚፔሲሌስል፡
፲5. ሰምሰፔዜል፡

፤7. ዴትርዜጵል፡
16. ሰተርሌስል፡

15. ተማሌል፡
wanting

14. Oavranx

7. SawyiX

10, Zaptvgs

117. Eki]

20. “PakeulN

4. Zaha

12. Zag

17. Oey

(zo)

ter)

(13)

19. በኵርዜስል፡
17. ጡኵርዜል፡

(x0)

20. ተፉማሌል፡
፲9. ዮየምያሌስል፡

21. ተጸዛዜል፡
10. ተRራዝA (viii. 3

13. በሰሰሌየል፡
wanting

18. Tupi

10, Tout

20, Sap

15. Za

21, Tovplk

8, Towel

13. ATP (viii. 3
ZepulN)

7. Seu

ሓስድርሌል፤)

In the above Table I have followed the order of E Ixix. 2 ; the names as they
appear in that list head each of the twenty-one columns. Next comes the list in
E Vi. 7 5 then that in Gs, and finally that in Gs, On the left of each name is placed
a number which gives its place in its own list. Above each column 7 have Dut
a number in brackets for convenience in references, Column (13) is placed at the

end instead of after (12) since በNሰA;

has no parallel in E vi, 7 and no certain

one in Gs or G5,
As regards E lxix, 2, (15) which appears again in (19) is certainly corrupt, also
(21) which is a repetition of (oy. To (13) we have already referred. Thus the
twenty-one names are reduced to nineteen,

OL E vi. 1 (18) is wanting:

also (13): (15) is hopeless.

This list furnishes

nineteen names.

Of Gs (7) i5 wanting, and (15) and (5) corrupt. “This list has twenty names.
Of Gs the list is complete, but (15) is hopeless,
In the above Table the identifications may be regarded as certain in (1) (4) (6)

(715) (14) (16) (19-20), as probable or possible in (23) (5) (21-18, 21), as
undeterminable in (13) and (15).

CRPPRTNDEN
10

GIZEH:

SYNCELLEUS,

THE

AND

VATICAN

FRAGMENTS

diva keoy xiii, 05 xxii. 25 XXIV,
6 aioy 6 ueyas Xvi. 1.
35 XxVL. 32.4.
dvalBaiy Vii, 45 ix. 105 XIV, 5.
dro Toy aievos XIV. 1.
Yeveat Toy aiSyos 1X, 43 xX, 3, GyvayyeANe xiii, 10.

“ABN xxii, 7,

aieoy

GBvrros xvii, 7, 85 Xx, 7,
dyagds V. 65 xxv. 3,

GYaAAacrgat x. 19,
GyaAAiares VY. 9,
dyarnrds Xx. 12;

EIN

Avaynkuds Vi፡ 7:

Gvayyvecke xiii, 4, 7.
Yeveai T@y aioyeoy IX, 4.
eis Tov aiya Xx, 55 xii. 0 Gvdyun IT
dvdye XxXviii, 3"
XX, IO; XXIV. 4
&yyeAos vi, 25 X.7 5 XY, 4) 21,
GvageiaTite VL 4, 5,6
TE
eis Tovs aigSyas X. 5, 10.
(r9y Bvvditeey) XX. 12 2, 3, 4,
eri rdyras Tove aieyas XIV, §. GyakakUmrTe Vili, 33 XVi, 3.
dvaxauBdye 1, 2, 3.
€rXaTot aioves XXVil, 3.
5,0, 7, 85 xx 5,0, 10;
expt aioyos Xxii, 115 XXY. Ayayvgyd Vi. 7.
XI: 3,0, XXII
HV: 0
dyaravouat XXiii, 2,
#2
XXXIL, 6,
Tov aiSyoe TS» aieyoy X. dvdravres XX, 3.
Syiagua
dyareAAe 11, 1,
ጥክደ Tdewe Tot ai@yos Xii, 4.
12,
dvaToN xviii, 6, 15,
aieovtos V, 6; Xx. 10; XV. 4,6.
SYtoNGyos 1,1 2.
€€ GyarToA®y XXvi, 2.
tyeos 1. 2) 3, 95 Vii, 15 ix. 4 dkagapia V, 45 X, 11, 20,
er dyaroAds Xxiv. 2.
RII: ZIV) 25 NV
22,
Tp dyarokas Xviii. 75 XXvi,
05. XX. 2, 3, 4, 95 6, 7, 8 dkdNurTos IX. §.
XXi. 52 05 Xx, 35 xxiii. 4; dkaTagkevagTos XX, 1) 2,
Mo RT NED
kote Bo
TRY:
2h RI
XXIV. 6; XXXII. 3, 6.
6 tyeos [) Peyas EE
dyapaiye xX. 16,
ly, Skpa XXVi, ፈዲ.
“AkDay XXXii, 2,
yeuos XIV, 85 RVI
RV
Eh I RIT
dAJgeta Xx. 16; xi, 23 XV, 1
Tytos Tne B6éns XXYV, 3,
1, 22 4, 5,
EOE BL
ge XXIV, 4) 5%
T9 &ytoy XXV. ©,
GAngwés XY. 15 xxvii, 3.
ygpeoros i, 25 Vi. 1,25 Vii. 3
dgex@os xxii, 7.
dgtkea X. 155 XV. 11.
AN: TS 3,45 1 3,OS)
GእእIAove Vi, 2, 4, 5) 6,
agiknua ix, 105 xiii. 2.
TORR TORIES aT a5
aNNotda, 11
2
2
guia ix, 6, 9; XiIOi20
IR I
UTI E D
An BevBpeoy XXX, 1.
epoBagils Xvii, 3.
GBa:iX: 72 XR
0 xvi, 3; xvii. EE
AuapuX Vi. i)
deporkoria viii, 3
XX, 33 XX, 3, 9, 72 135
Acai YUE IO X48, dkaprdye ¥. §, 05 (Skapr. €y) ey
dyirTauat XX, 8.
SAVE IE
vil. 55 xiii. 55 XX, 0.
dvoiye i, 25 X,45 x. 15 xiv.
ACaAMN VE 7;
Shdprnka XX, 6.
aiua Vii, 5.53 ix. 1, 95 xV., 4.
duapria V. 05 vi. 35 1x. 05%,
IE
voulpos. XXVli, 2.
aio xin Xilis g
B, 20; xiii, 2; Xviii, 16.
airia XX, 4.
aN i, 9; Y: 0 Ei I0) GyOknMua 1X 10:
aio 1,45 V.

x. 135 x1, 23

x11. 65 xiv.

125 5,9

xid

05

xii, 45 XY, 3

xii, 11, 145 xxY, 5, 7.

12, 13,

dureNos X, 195 XXxii, 4.
déuyBaXot XXX, 2.

Gyouia IX I,

Givouos Vii, 65 XxX, 13.
dvoxa] xiii, 2.

GREEK

290
dvrarBots

xxii, 11.

79

dvrXau3dye 1, 8,
Gveogey Xxviii, 2.
dyveorepoy XIV, 17.
dyerepos XY. 0,
drdye Xx. 6, 135

INDEX

1
TyevUudiT
oy drefBnls 1.0
XXL, 13.

ND

IO

THE

U2

drrée XV, 11.

doris Vili. 1.
dreporkoria viii, 3.
xvii, 1 2,

ag
mag
XV," 1.
Gras Vi. 45 Xxvil. 3.
GrepXoat Xvi, 6.

GreXe XXXL, 2.

drdi.45
25 v.35 xii. 55
EBV,
TL AVL 2)
XXXL, 4
drogvilcke V, 05 ix, 10; XY, 4)
Xxii, 10,
drokakvmrTe iX, 6.
droxpivoat Vi, 45 XY. 15 XX.
9; xxi, 3, 7, 95 xxiii. 45
Cyee
oe

GmoXepée INS 3.

Gmpemis XXVii, 2.

TS Svgparow xl: 2;
Yeveai CBSouilkoyra Xx. 12.

drrpoy XViii. iy

ATapkoue Vi, 7
“ATPuIX Vi, 7.
avgdye VY, 05 Vii, 2.
atvrds xiii, 3.
dpavite x. 7, 8, 145
XVi, I 5 ao ys

Yevvae TP

XV. II

dpayiceogat ey raise Goi
Vill, 2.
dpavtruds xii, 4.
pees xi, 5,
ders kai uaxpérns xiii, 0.
dpuxyeouat Xvi, 2.

(intrans.).
droxeta ¥V., 5 (opp. to (oy); BapakulX Vi, 7.
Vii, 45 ix. 35 X%, 0 125 xii, by Barayos x, 13.
7] eyaእn Xi, 11.
XIV. Oi xvi, 15 xxil, 12.
Barayot kat TXmyai kat hare
sApagge V1. Ph
pyvpoy Vil, 1.

“Apeapes Vi, 7,

Gpuguos Vv. 0.

Yes XXV, 6.
Bactevs
Toy ai@yos XXV, 325, 73 XXVii,

3,

Tey aiovey 1X. 45 xii, 3.
Barrate xvii. 2 5.
Bdros (=nN3) Xx, 19,
ፍ Ts Krigeas XV. 0.
BarpunN Vi. 7,
Baptea vi. 1.
ar dpXiis ii. 2.
Spye vil, 15 ix 75 xiii. 101 BeXos Xvi, 3.
BiBAos xiv. 1,
XIV. 0,
BXarrée XxVi, 1,
dpXey Vi, 35 viii. 1.
Gpoha XXiV, 45 Xxx, 25 Xxx, Bode ix. 2, 10.
Bon viii, 4.
Ro
Bongea 1. 8.
AeA Vi, 7.
doélBeta 1, 95 v.85 viii, 2 Bopa xxv. 5
Apuapes Viii, 3.

apXéYyeNos IX.
| 15 Xx. 7,8,
apxy Vi, 7, 8 XVI, 15,

ix. 15 x. 20.

drefea i, 9,

0

X, 175 XY. 3, i; 8, Io.
7% 72 v.6, 7,85 vill.
25 ix, 10; x. 8,210 205205

xii. 45 xii, 75 XV. 55 XV. 55
8, 10 115 xvi. 1, 35 xvii,
85
XVI, U 2, 3, 9» 10, 123 145

xxi. 25 xxii. 72 105 xxiii, 15
XXV. 3, eT

1; XXVIi, I,

2 (transliteration

of No);

OER Dis ERIE:

Yiyas Wil.

NL

3S ENON

XVLOT US XS

Yivergat eis Tu xix, 2.

Bafionpd (= R35) xix, 1.
Ytveg gai Tye X11. 1,
Bagos 76 xviii, 115 xxii. 2.
yivokiat 1: 85 1 25 Vai
Bagvs xxiv. 25 Xxvi, 3, 4, 8.
1; Vili 2: ix, IO IES NZ)
BaእkiA Vi. 7.
205 xiii: 4570; 09:5 YO NE
BAe x, 453 xiv. 245 xviii, 6 3; XV: 15 xviii, 145 XI

Grrouat XXV, 4) 6.

ApaxuiN Vi. 7.

Borpves
potyikaoy
XXIV,i 4.
7
dreNoy XXX, 4.
Bouvds 1. 6.
Bpoyvrai Xvi. 3.

arp XIV. 82 11, 175 Xxvu. 3
TaBpuiN IX
i TS
ODO
XVI, 4 13 15 Bl, 9,10:
drTparai XIV, 8, II, 175 Xvi. Yarrnp Vil, 2.
3 (so read for dyrpeorai in Yeved rb
Yeveat Tog aioyos ix, 45 X. 3,
text),
Grrpokoyia viii. 3.
Ii 225 AV DN ID,

dardkpupa 1, 5.
droAeire xii, 45 XY, 3,
GrOAAvks 1, 7,95 V. 55 vili,4; dpirrauat V. 45 xiv. 23,
X, 2) 7, 9, 15) 105 xxii, 7.
drorAavde Vil. 2.
GrorTpepas Tu Yvounly Vi, 4
droreaeieots XIX, 1.
Grorehee v.25 35 Vi, 4.

i

Boppas XV ii, 35 XXX 1,
Bordwn vii, 15 viii, 3.

XX, 10.
Yorke 1, 25
XVi. 3.

V. 15

xii, 1

Yእercra Xi. 2) 0, 10 15,
Yopos XVii, 7.
Yvon Vi +
Ypaliiarevs

TT)s GXnIgeias XY. 1.
T]s Bexatoguwms xii, 4.
Ypapy xv. 7
ኔ
Ypape x, 85 xi, 42 053 xiv.
ቁ 7.
cmt Tye TAS dkaprias X. 8.
vv

ies

Viii, I ) Ix

115 xii 45 XY. 3,4) 125 xvi.

BR

Ta,

Yoyia Xviii, 2.
AagounA X, 4.
Satovtoy XIX. 1,
Ady xii, 7.

AayeuN Vi. 7.
BayrekGs xxviii 3.

GIZEH, SYNCELLUS,
Benue ix. 35 xiii, 6, 7.
Bet ix, 115 XY. 2.
Beikyvkt 1, 25 vill, 15 xiii, 2
XI AYO OV,
Beyds XX. 8, 09.
Seka X, 19,
Bekaros viii, 1,
Beygpoy iii; v.15 X.18, 19
XXIV. 324% 55 XXV. 1 2,4)

AND

VATICAN

FRAGMENTS

981

Bde xv, 11,
BgXoe ix, 6,
BdEa V. 15 ix. 35 xiv. 165 xxvii,

eis viii, 4.
ss,riya Troy XYil, 15 &c.,
€ovrat eis JNuépay dydyxns

Opgyos iis Q6Ens coy 1x. 4.
Kkuptos iis B6éns xxii, 145

€s Tily Vy Yeyeiy BueyoovUny

2) 5,

XVI: 35

|

rt 1,
1. 2.

eis Toy aiyas kai ovk eorat
€
abrois eis €Aeoy kai elpilwnly

ge9s TDs 89éne XXY., 7,
6 &ytos Te B6gns XXY. 3
xi 6.
XXV. 1 Ly2 XXVi, 1; XXVIi.
1] Boén Y beydAn XiV. 20,
eis avr Tovro Xxii, 3» &c.
2; xxix, 2; Xxx, 2 Xai,1, Aovganx x. 4.
eis for éy xviii, 11, &c.
2 ERI IY
Spdakey XX. 7.
cirdye viii. 4.
Béohpov Ti)e ppovlrees oxi, 3. Qpéuos Xv. 115 xxiii, 2, 4.
eirdyety Tily Kpicty ix, 3.
. ppoumreos Xxxtis ©.
Spdros xxvili, 3.
f eiépxoat ix, 23 XIV, 9, 10) 135
Befuds XIE TL
Qvyauat vii, 35 ix, 5) 103 xiil. XXV. 0.
Sedat xiii, 6.
Bi AY, IONIYY 2 RF:
ciropevouat Vii 1,
Seruot XiV, 5,
Svyditets
clrpepe vii. 45 ix, 65 xiv. 8.
Begherilptoy Xx. 13 (rvyeNeiek
Toy ovpayoy Xviii, I4,
eas) 5 Xviii, 145 xxi, 10.
GYYeAot Tov Svydueay XX,
TOU eo% Xvi, 3.
Sere Vi, 2,
I.
Yiyavras beydXous €k XS
Bee x, 4a 125 14 xiv. 55 Xvi. Suyakuts i, 4.
Tur XNiey Vil, 2.
16; xxi. 3, 05 xxl, 11.
ck BeéuSy xiii. 7.
Svye 11, 1,
Be ER
RR
guts xiii. 75 xvil. 4, 55 xxvi, ckagTos Hs Fi WE:
aD
RES REVI IB:
2.
ckdirepos XXIV, 2,
ua Ti xxi. 45 aii, 85 xxv. 1 gvruai xxii 15 XXiii, 15 45 XXVi. ékaToTds Vii. 1,
XXVii, 1.
exgukée XX. 4.
4; xxvii, 3.
BtafBaive Xxxaii, 2.
€kgiknees XXV. 4,
Sagpokat TOy dorépeoy XY. 8. €avroy of the 1st person Vi, 2; exBtoke XXiii, 4.
9. arrépeoy XY, 115 17.
of 2nd person XY. 3.
€keigey Xxvi, 15 Xxviii, 15 XXiX.
Stakory] XX. 7.
ede 1X, 11,
IEE PSS BY
Stakoeot Vi, ©.
€Bgounkoyra X, 12,
€KKOrT® XXVi, 1.
Gade XxiVy, 2,
cBgoimkorrés Vii, 1.
EkXéyouat Vi, 25 Vii. 1,
Gtaxve i, 6.
€Bgouos Vili. 35 XxiY. 3.
ekXeire X, 165 XY, 5,
Gtauéya XX, 2,
EBerard X1ii, 0%,
€Xexrds 1, 1, 3, 85 ¥., 7, 85
Suayeve Xviii. 4.
€yyite xxiv. 2.
XXY. 5.
Qtayoéouat i, 2; il, 25 V,1,
Tuyi XIV. 22, 23,
€kreTdyyulut XIV, 8,
Qtapvee i. 6.
TuyOS XIV. 0.
€xropevokat xiv. 195 Xvi, 15
Qtarxita 1, 7.
cyeipe XIV. 25,
EOI E
Qtarpéxe Xxxiil, 23 Xxxil, 4.
cyplyopos. lr Bs WuZNIR 7, €kTiye XiV, 35 351: Foy'E35
Gtapepe xiv. 16.
i592.
8 roy dyiov Toy
XXV, 7,
Bgakaእia x. 8B.
LeyaXou, 4 To0
ovpayoy i ek@evye Xx, 3, 17,
Ggdrke Vii, 15 viii, 15 ix, 6
Hii EO HVE
RD 0 ckpoBsae. XIV, 0%
Rilo:
CKXUVve Ix. I
?7
QiBout 1, 8 5 Vv. 85 ix, 7; xiv, 2, tSaqpos XIV. 10, 17,
€xXvgts XVil, 7,
ECekulN Vi
cXaia x, 19.
35 XV si XXV, 427,
OiépXokat i. 6.
eigos xiv. 18, 20,
€AXarroy Xai. 13.
BXiosIiti.2 8B: V6, %3) eikdte XX, 7.
exarrde vil. 4
BR
0 AVA, 75 Vy. eikor6s Vii, 3,
€Aeyges xiv. 1.
3.
Aéyxe xiii, 8, 1oi mid. i, 9
eiui Bass,
uxatouun X,16, 185 Xi, 4; X1il, eis xix. 3.
xiv. 3,
€Xeos 1, 8.
TOS RIV
i, 14;5 XXX. 3.
cy Xxli, 85 XXIV, 2.
Ee) 3.
CXeos kai eipilwn ¥. 5, 6; xii.
eis Ty dyiey dYyéAey XX,
Qtopite xxii, 4.
2, 3, ቁ 5,6, 7, 85 x,
Stopto és Xxii, 4.
€y eee xxvii, 4.
iO
RRL 5 UL
[RN
"EXtovg Vii. 2.
XXIV. 6,

GREEK

999
Arie Xx, IO,
CuBaAe X. 4

chkeéve absol. V, 4.

crinre XY. 11.
cruptrks X. 6.
chpayite LE

€y Xvi, 15 x. 35 XxiV. 4, &c.;
v. A

IO

THE

eri ry Gyagy XX, 5,

CAእeire Xxil, 2.

instr.

INDEX

I

ebetBie XXIV, 2) 3.
evaoyée 1, 1» 83 ix, 45 X. 215
TOU Koy XX, 2.
Xi, Bs HERI, 1A ENV
TOSI
IE
EVES
eri w. dat. x, 2; Xx. 5,6; ¢% XVI
RXVIIAT
AY
dpdret xiv. 85 Ww, acc, 1, 2, evXoynr6s ix, 45 xxii, 14.
evkoyia 1, 15 X, 185 xi, 1,
AO
HIN, 2b iV,
EyuuA Vi, 7.
XXXL, 2.
eruBée XX, 4.
evgel3ns XXvii, 3,
erteiketa V. 6.
ev@paivouat XXv. 6.
ertgvuéa Tuyd Vi, 25 XV, 4 (¢y eta gérrepos XXIV, 45 XXXi, 3.
evegne XXIV, 5.
Teyty
ertgve XIX, 1.
eveofia XXV, 4.
erKaAUTTe
epogeve xx, 1 75 xxi. 1
ErikaXNvrTety Teyi Tt X, 5,
EXILE IT EN
EH 2
expe EY
errirre xiii, 8.
ertkérTouat XXV. 3.
Xe 1, 2 2. IX, PS
NARI
crioTauat Vs 85 oo, 3.
2 RID ERIN
EVD

XIV, 2, 5, 6, 105 XV. 4.
cy Yarrpi NaBovrat Vil,2.
cy Toh Tekrety ie (OD
cy Diy KaTapdoovrat V. ©.
€y Uhiy QuobyTat V. ©,
cyayrioy XXVii, 3,
eyaros Vii, 3.
cvBékaros Vili, 3.
cybofos xiv. 215 XIV, 25 cruvvdye arii YE) RXV,
cmurvyaXegts XXL, 4,
2. 3.
erray] V. 25 xxi, 0.
cvgage XIX I IH, IY:
CtauTes xvii. 16.
Ea
IX:
aro SvtavToy eis éyiaurdy V. crerngeUe IX,
ን

2.

€yretgey xxii. 13.
€yrtuos XXIV, 2.
TO €vrtuoy Kai €vBogoy xiv.
21.

€vrOX] V. 45 xXiV. 1.

CrvyXdye IX, 3 IO; XXii. 5,06,

7, 12.

#

by

2,

criXaps XXXL, 5s

(do: IT, 85 X10

cmeXopNyeiy Tut Vii 3:

(Og SARS £3 SSA (EX

errd XViil. ©, 135 xx.75 Xx, 3
IVD

3OEXL, I.

SE
viii. 1.
cpyargilrerat ካንግ x, 18,
cpyagia Vili, 1.
€pyoy 1.9) Ii

Epub Vi, 6.

Fpheoyeteik xiii, 7.
cprerd vii, 5.

HT

EV

Cuupya XXiX, 2,
(opegns xvii. 2.
(on. V. 52 95

3X i XIV. 135

XXil, 105 XXV. 520
Zor XXX, 2,

Tie VY, 2,3 XL

KaTd Tivos Vii, 6,
I; xii. 25 xii. 2; XIV 22s
€vortoy Vii. 4; ix. 3, 55 xiii, xy. Ds Rl Ey
] €pnuos x. 45 ad). xviii, 125
AIO RD 22,
EON 1 12 HN YS RL
XXVIIL, 1,
15 XiV. 24 XV. Ii xix, 35 cpnuée X. 8.
Epkovteik Vi, 6%
XXI. 5 05 NNT.
cEaipe re1 if
ccakeipe 25 oY
cEayirrakat EV Mo,
eEeureiy XiV. 16.
CEepXokat |
IES RO EU ES EY:

Xxvi, 1) 2, 3, 4.

€es.con]. X, 12175 HS
Drep: XY. 2s
Ei NE
XX], 0,

yoguat XX. 5; Xxiv. 6.
TIAtos Vii. 33 xiv, 18, 205 Xvi.
4; xviii, 4.
Nepal, Hi, Vapnigs NNO
x: 0, #2 Xa
RAVI NNIS
XVII AOI XI M2 RI 2k
RXV:
Tle Kpirees XX, 4) 11, 135
XXVII. 35 4.

Nuépat Toy aiSyos Xi, 2.
cpvgpt ayaa XXai1, 2.
CpxXouat 1. 05 xi11, 8,09 XVI,
125 xviii. 15.
Bis SEIS,
dara v.35 xvii, 55 XXX, 2.
drd Tuyos XY. 0 XXL, 7.
cperde xiii, 4; XV. 25 Xvi, 25 gdyaros Xvi, 1,
cgovria XXV, 4.
gdrnre
XL, B's OIL OBS RIS
TINy €éoviay ¢Xeoy 1X. 5.
eis Tv YI» Xx, 10.
XXVe Te
Ti)y €éovciay €Sokas ix. 7.
€pernres X, Io; xiii, 2 (cor- gavudCe €y Tuvu XXYV. 15 XXVi, 60
€Evryvos xiii, 0%
(repi Te @apayyos).
rupt), 4, 65 xiv. 47.
€oprn ii,1.
erie XY. 11RNa
AD:
ava Vi, 7.
cmaipe xiii. 55 XIV. 8.
Oedaoiat Vi. 25 1X. 15 Xx, 2,35
€oXarot ai@ves XXVi, 3.
erdye Xviil, 5) 12
7 ALD i 2 RINE
ELE
€repos XXIV. 4.
RE
oy
SEE EN SSR
En VY. 52 9 VRRP
eraov8y Vii, 15 viii, 3%
EE): 0:
Oeae vi, 35 xvii, TS ER
emréketya XVii, 9, 125 XxiV. 25 €rt ekeigey XXX, 1.
fi 2,
XXX, 1, 35 Xxx, 2.
erothdite XXV. 7.
OeueNtos XY. 0.
erépxXouat X, 2,
evgokia 1, 8.
1s Ys XVii1, 1,

CGIZEFHSSNNCEELUS,

TO» ge®y 1x, 4.
gepeia ii, 3.
Qepuds xiv, 13.
Oewpee 1, 25 XiV. 14,
ሐ9s xX, 5,

h

cgeepovy
kai
18.
Oeopnua XIE Ys
Onxn xvii. 35

eifoy

OAesae ix, 85 xv. 5,75

3.

VATICAN

FRAGMENTS

B88

knp6s 1. 6,
KiB6nXos 1X, 05 xX. 0, 15,
kai @Aeyouat xxi, 7.
KuBpa vi, 7.
Katpds ll, 15 Xvi, 15 xviii, 15, KiyydLooy XXXII, 1.
kK. GpouaToy XXX, 3.
10.
KAaie XIV, 7.
ra Kakd XV, 3.
KAnpoyoueiy VY. 6 (Ty Yi); v,
Kdkogts Vii, 4.
Kae Vi, 05 Xi, 35 XiY. 8,
KoiXog XX, 2» 3,
2 RV OHO REF
KoiA@ua XX, 2 8.
KaእAUBAepapoy viii, 1.
kotudokat Xiii, 73 XY. 3.
XiYV, KaእAOv XXIV. 2.
KOtyovée intt, Xi, 2.
KayXoriCe Vili, I.
Kade Vi, 15 xxiv, 55; XXX, Kode XX, 13,
kdros Vil, 35 x1, 1,
3) 9.
Kopu@y Vi. 65 xviii. 85 xxv.
xi. KakvrTe XIV. 13,
Kapia XIV 2:

Oeueatda Xviii, 12 3 XX, 2,
ROBT
HI, VT, XV,
EU
DY NB
XY

I,
TOU atoyOS 1, 4,

AND

kaiouat XIV, 125
EE ED EN

XVill, 0, 13

ic

TB

Onpia Ta vii, 5,
Kogié@ XV111, 1,
Kapros VRE RRR
KOchos VIE Es as 95
Onoavpoi oi xvii, 3 3 xviii, 1,
XXX, 32 4.
OAiBe Xai, 13.
Kdpvoy XIX, 2.
6 T@y pooripes ES
GopvBate xiv, 8.
kaTd (= ‘upon ) Tdyrey i, Kpiha Xe 125 X11, I.
gpdvos xiv. 18, 19; xviii, 8
7, 95 (= against’) Kvpiov Kpiye XIX. FRIIS
Kpirs 1, 7, 95 Vil. 4i Xx. 0,
ERI
EYE 0
XXVIH, 2
I32 5 Xvi. 15 XiX. 15 xxl, 45
Gvydrnp vi, 15 viii. 15 ix. 8,
v6rToy XViii, 7,
ORE RV SY
10% 115 xv. 4; EIR 2
Tove Uryovs Xi1i, IO; XiV, 2,
Tily Kpizey eigdyety TpOs Tya
vue v. 0.
Tas €ToAds ¥. 4) &c,
dtpa xiv. 12, 15, 25.
kaTaBaiyao Vi, 05 xviii, BS
YS
QeynX Vi, 7.
KpurrTe IX, 53 X, 2,
XXV, 3.
Gopas viii, 1.
KpuUgTaNAtyos XiY. 18.
KaTakave X, I4,
Kri(® XIVS 35 EI TS RV
KaTakAvhGS Vil, 15 X, 2.
idoiat Xe 7,
KaTakpive X, 145 Xiii, 5,
i
os
Jpeg vi. 6.
KaTaNaNeiy
KTUZLS XV. 03 XViil, 1,
tars X, Fic
KUKA® XIV. 0, 22.
KaTd Tyo V. 4,
tStos
TOV ToiXey XIV. 12.
KaTakvety intr. V. 6.
TIlv fBiay Tdguy ii, 1.
KaTaukaygdive iii, 1.
KUXNiokat XVII, 15,
foy IEA IOY XIE 3 Xi 80 KaTayoeiy ii, 1.
Kirra XIV. 29,
XIV. 82 15.
KaTayTGy XVi, 0,
i) RITA
iXaps XXX, 4
Kuptos IR A
9) XIV ZY
KaTdpa V. 6) 7,
iva X, 75 A: 4
XIV. 5, 65
Xvi], 155 Xx, 03 3x, 3.
aioyoy V, 5
EV Di II
IT
KaTapGrgat V. 5) 0; XXii, 11
Kvpieoy FE
TovkulN Vi, 7.
XXXVI Fy 2
[n ጥፍ keyaእog uns Xl, 35
irr EY NIV 22205 XVII, KaTdpaTos XXV, 2.
K, Toy ovpayoy Xi, 4.
DY:
KaTarovgdCe XIV, B,
Kk, Tie BE XX. 145 XXvil,
‘Irpanx X, 1,
KaTarparre X. 12,
35 5%
(zXupds XV. 8.
KaTaTpEXe XVI, 5.
oi ir Xvpot ጥኻሩ ሻሪ XV፤. ፲.
Nae 1, 25 05. xu, Xie’ D5
KaTapayite Xii, 4,
irXvs 1, 4
IE EIV2 RXV 2,
KaTapepe Xi, 15 mid, Xx, 7,
iXOvs Vile ge
እaugdve i. 5; Vil. 1, 25 Xl, Ty
KaTapvreve xX, 18,
ToueulX Vi, 7.
Ps ii 3 RV II RR
KaTéyayTt XiV, 15,
Kare ble Vil, 32 4, 55 viii, 3.
Kafapite x. 20, 22,
እMaurpds XiV. 20 (Naurpérepoy).
KaToiknlrts TY EV I
ION
Kagéépa XXIV. 3;Roy
dure XIV. 18,
kdre XIV. 23,
KdOnuat xiii, 95 xiv, 20,
Mags XX, 5%
Keys XVII 139,
Ka0ite xiii, 75 xxv. 3.
እarpeve X. 21,
KepaTia XXX, 4,
Kags i, 15 Xv. 4.
እéye 1, 2) 33 Vi, 2, 35 viii, 4
Kepaእy
Kaiy (Kdety) Xxii, 7.
[fs 35, EI5 Xu EN RISA Rs
Gpovs Xvii, 2.
3"

Hh

#

sve

994

CREEK

INDEX

.TO

FHE

Ss XIV, 22 245 XY. D iy T9 éroy XViil, 85 XXVi, 15
xviii, 145 XiX. 15 Xxi.4, 5,8
XXViI, I.
dvd Leroy xii, 05 XII iE
9, HO XI 2250105 Pri 35
;
XXIV. 35 XRV IIIS, RAV:
XXIVSSS OVI: 3A
Bera
BN
IOI
EN
15, XXXII. 5
2
NB RA BO iE
eipnka IIIS
BOO
RIAD
ep xxvii, 2.
Aeios XX, 2.
REraNoy Ville 1,

DSLR Ye) HPD SASSY

erakgy XIV. 115 xviii, 3.
erapvreve Xxv., 5.
እAiay XX. 2; XXVi. 0; XXxil, ereyeipe XX, 13.
éToXos XX, 13,
4.
érpoy X. 195 xviii. 11 XX.
AiBayos xiii, 0,
Aigayos XXIX, 2
AgdrAakes XiV. 10,
expe prep. 1, 93 11. 23 1X, 2,
Xigos viii. 15 xiv. 9, Io i xviii,
IO5 X: 25 XIV EDS VHS
O52 EVIL IOS RIX.
EXER
Oe
RN
NOVos 1 IY ME
RR
i
Io; xxl, 42 115 XXY. 45
XXVIL, i
105 XiV. I, 22, 34.
Xotroi Vii, 1 ; Viii. 45 X, 11.
LEXpt To
Ww. inf. xxi, 6;
XXI1, PE
Avuaiyvowat XIX, 1.

69de 1, 15 viii, 2.

AéueX X. 1 (AdueX X, 3).
እevkds X1V. 20,

7

XUces Guaprt®y V. 6.
Avrilptoy eraov8®y Viii, 3.

i

LeXpus con]. xiv. 0,

ke Xpts prep. Xvi.1 ERI

XXV, 4

atlpeot (= I55) x. 9.
axkpiv adv. XXX. 15 XXxil, 2.
kakpdgey to Gen. XXXii. 3.

taxpérns X. 05 Xil1, ©.
aAtaTa
pé8pa xxv. 2.

Mayvgofgapd (= Rግ3TiD) Xxviii.
I.

RY

vuE Xx1V. 23; xviii, 6; xxiii, 2;
OT

Iie

Nee X, 2.

Enpdés 1X. 65 Xxvi, 4.

yB8oos Vii, 3.

ofga ix. 6, 115 xxv. 2.
oikéa X. 5,
oiknriptoy XXVii. 2.
oikogokée XIV. 10, 15,
oleogouy XIV. 9%
oikos XIV, 10, 13 155 215 XXY. 5.
oivos Xe 10%

oiXouat XXX.

eR

35, XIX, 2 BR

nyve XV1, 3.
taiyo Vil, 15

Qboioha XXX, 2.

2

IAS

Gkoies iy

EH

A
RY
biagha SS Pp
uUyvve Xe II

I

i) V. 65 Vi 59s 6.
Okvvyat Spee Vi, 4
Siotos XXI, 3 5 AVS

eXpts og con]. V1, 4.

IX, 0

NE

OEY, 25
OXolBagye xxii, 2,
OAS ix. 05 x. 75 XIV. 152 16.
GHXAT XIV. 8.

Skog Vi, 55 XI

iy

XV]. 1.

Gvespos Xiii, 8.

gvnete XiV. 6.

RI

kirnrpa roteiy 1X. 8.
MiXank ix, 35%: E15

gyoka ¥.D

5

XXIV. ©.

RR

5 VL TS

RE

OyOHagFTOS XVI, 1,

Qf£vs X. 8,
Qrire avr®y Vi, 2.
Gros viii, 1,
115 XXYs
vptos XiV. 22 i Xviil, 165 XX, groy xvi. 3, 6; xviii, 0, 12.
gras X, 33; XL11, 4, 6.
kaxaipa XIV. ©.
uv Tilptoy Vy BN
beyaእetdrne Vi, 2.
Opauka V1. 7.
pares i, 2; xiii. 8, 105 xiv. 1,
XVI. 3.
beyaNorpemns XXX, 3.
8, 24; xi BRA 2B RLY
Ta k. Toy aigyos 1X. 6.
eyaእorperes XXVL, 5.
Bs BEX Br
)
keyaxoruwm VA
IXY
opde ii, 25 iil. 15 V¥. 35 1X. 9s
van X. 12.
xii. 35 XIV. 16.
6 Ir FI
OY Ni 5
eyes 1. Uy, N 4) V1, 3 Vii, vdp8os XXX. 1.
Io; XV. 2, Ii I0 2H
NapnAeik WHE NINE
CR
ENE
xvii. 3, 6, 75 Xvi. 1224, 5
BD
TNS 2, 10, 225 XV. I vekpos XIE
6, 9, 11, 12, 135 XIX, 35 XX1
XV, 5, © XViil. IO, 11, 13 vekrTap REI
NI
OU ILS
RIX, TX
xxii, Iu) vehe XV, 11,
xix. BIND
MY
vedrTneX. 17.
EE
eT
6 iéyas xX. 1, &c. See under vepeékn XiV. 85 XV. 115 xviii. 5. NXT
Spy) viii, 35 xX. 225 Xxii1. 8.
voée V. 15 xiy. a
ayeos.
gvuoy ¥. 9.
yOMua Ve 8,
eyegos xxi, 7.
vdros XViii. 6,75 XXiV. 25 XXVi, GpyiCokat XViii, 16.
BeAAet Yiveg Oat x. 2.
Spkos, V1, 4.
4)
2.
heya X. 35 XXVi, 1,
pos 1. 4, 6:5. wi. 6:5 XV
vovs Viil, 3.
uepite XXVil, 4.

avgdye XXV. 1.
apyapirns Xvi. 7.
LartE X, 225, Xl.

yn uOruyoy Vii, 4.
kovos vl 353 ES 5) XXVii,
vptds ቫ 1:05 XIV. 252,

1.

GIZEH,

SYNCELLUS,

EVI: Oi OI
a: 35 aall:
PY IVI,
I YY
REVI TIYD
UK, 1,
DAIRY) 2%
pos dtytoy XXVvi. 2.
pos XepovBiy xiv. 18.
Ss (with Semitic syntax)
ap %» ,,. avrey Xvi, 1,
Srtos XR TS RY AL
Sruy XXIV.45 XXV. 1265 Xooii.4.

AND

VATICAN

TapeufBoXn 1. 4.
TapépXouat XiV. 21 3 Xviii, ©.
TapéXe XVii, 4.
Tapirrauat XIV, 22.
Tas Bassi,
Tarde
TaTety

X, 7.

FRAGMENTS

293

TOAUTeAety Xvi, ©.
Tovmpia X. 10,
Tovnpds
myevua(Ta] Tovmpd XV. 8, 0%
mTopevokau iX, 85 X. 2, 4,0, 11
X11, 45 xiii, 3, 75 XV. 325 XxiV.
2 EIS XVII
oe 1,

eri YIy 1, 4.
En X, 0%
Tarp X, 105 XXY. 6; XXxii, 6. Topveve Vill, 2.

TOppe
L
TeBde XX, 4.
Teun X. 1, 0, 225 XV: 25
T. Gro Toy BévBpoy XXX, 4.
ori, 1; vil. 3; xii: 4; xii.
eri moppe i 2%
EVI 25
7,95 xv. 4; VIR ZY XIII Tevgeiy Xi, 0%
ToTahds V. 35 Xvil, ©, 8,
XXVil, 2.
TeyTakogta 4 ley
Uy ups XVII 5"
QToty XXV. 6.
Torakot Tupos bAeyoeyot
Tépas i,55 Xviii. 5, 105 xix.35
Sppaiyouat xxiv. 4.
SOLIS T 5 Nori,
XIV. 10.
gray Ww. indic, vi. 15 w. sub). Tepu3Natoy XiVv., 20,
TOU Xile 1
TONNE
XIII RY
TepkaNvrTe xiii, 0%
Toys X, 4
ET een
TEDEKUKNO® XXIV. 3.
mpayua V1, 3,4
oy XXYV, 3.
TepuraTée Xvi, 6,
mp6 Xi1, 15 Xiv. ©.
o% . . . avroy (emend,) xxii, 6; TeTdyyUut X. 7.
TpolBaive XXi1. 5, 0.
EY
TeTetygy Vii. 5 5 XViii, I2.
pds Ww, acc. Vi, 35 Vii, 15
0% « .. €v arg xxii, 9%
EVI FS NER NI 9 Riis
TeTpa xxii, 15 XXVi, 5.
oy un Ww. subj. Xix. 3.
TኻY)] XX, 2, 0%
RRR EIS
ovge ui] w. subj. Vv. 95 Xxii. 13. TMX Vii, 2.
Tpordya XIV. 25.
ovgeis xii. 15 XXiV. 45 xxv, 4. TiLTAut 1X, 05 X, 18,
TporéDXouat XIV. 24) 25 5 XV. 1.
otpayde 1. 2) 4; ii, 15 Vi, 2 Tive Vii, §.
TporkorTe XV, 11.
WI AIX ON IE RA
Tirept XXX, 1.
Tporkuyéa X, 21.
RHIISB
XIV YD
EH NY TirTe 1. 6; xiV. 6, 14.
Tporowres XX. 0%.
TOS
2 3 Nie
TpogTayua XViii, 15.
TurTeve 1, 5.
Vii 2 35 45 Di fo,15, 18 TAavde Vill, 15 XIX, 1.
Tpሪremroy XIV, 21) 24) 25.
IB RX 20
XB
TXaTos XX, 7 3 XXVi, 3.
dm) rporerou 1, 05 1x. 10,
XXL, 4.
TXeioy XXV. 65 XXxii, 3,
Ei 25 RII I
TOy o%payoy. 1:
ኵእቫንግ ጃ. 7; XxY, 6.
eri péreoroy XIV. 14,
9 UNAS 6 gyeos xY. 3.
TAMgvye VY. 5) 05 Vi. 15 Xvi, 1, TpOXOVS X. 19,
O%pX ix, I5 X15 xix, 1 TXAMuueAée V. 0,
TpeorTapXos Vili, 3.
XE 2D
TXpns XX. 7 5 XXVii. 15 XXviii. Tp@ros Vil, 25 Vill, 1.
otire . .. otire XX 27.
2 5 Xxxi, 2 (indecl.) 2 ei, 1. TToéouat XX, 0.
otire after oy Xi, 5; xHyey rMnpge. Vv. 95x. 175 xxi, 0.
TUX 1X. 2) 10,
ovBe «se otire. . , ofire xviii, 12. Tyevua 1X, 3, IO; xiii. 6; xiv. TUyvgdyouat XVii, 13,
Spetkerns vi. 3,
25 Xv.4%o78,9, 10, ጀ2 up 1. 65 X. 6, 135 xv. 9, 10,
OpgaAuds xii. 5.
EVIL IX
RNY
ON RR
12575, 155 175 19, 225 xvi:
Syes x. 55 xiii, 9.
i
NN
3, 0, 7, 9, 11 12, 13.
Soos i)7iVe 25 xxii, ፲3.

Tdyvrogey XXVii, 3.
Tavroios Vili, 1,
Tapalgaive 11, 1 5 Vili, I5 xviii,
niin 2: I, 0,
Tapal3oXn 1, 2) 3
Tapagetros So
ጥክና Buxatorvyms XXL: 3%
TapagéXokat XIV. 4
rapakvrrTe iX, 1.

TapayauBdye Xvii, 1.
Tapapuvds Xxvi, 1.

ra Ty. TOV YUYGtyT
Oy XV, 11,

XX. 357.5 Xxili, 22 45 XXIV. 1.

ጥ6 Ty. TOy KU3BAoy X. 15.

TUptyos XIV. 11.

Tyee XXIX, 2,

Tuppds XVill, 7.

Totée V. 1, 2,45 Vi. 35 viii, 1
IX. 5, 115 x. 195 xii. 45 XY.
3 4&7, 11 Xi. 4% 9.
cipwny 1, 8.

Teokdte (Tv

x. 5.

Tes LH, EV)

3) IIs

Kpirty 1 9.

ToNeutkds Vii, I.
TOAehos X, 0.
movkoppos IES
OAS IX, 1.

bayds 1, 7.
PayounXN XX. 45 xxii, 4.
“PaxeunX Vi, 7.
“Pau Vi, 7.
PapmN 1% a HA A RASS

xxii, 3, 6.

296

CREEK

PekelN XS
pee XIV. Bi XViish
Dua XIV YS

pita viii, 3.

Beborokia VY Wiis 8s
pimre XV, 115 XX, 4
€y Tuvt XX, 3

Byers XXvi, 2,
Ha

odBBara Xx. 17.
Zag Vi, 75 vii. 3.
Zak]N Vi, 7.
aun Vi, 7.
Zauliay) Vi, 7,

Eaux Vi 7.
rdirpetpos xviii, 8.
Zapnyvgs Vi, 7.
SapulN Vi, 75 XX 6.
rapktyos XIV. 2.

rdpé1.0; xiv, 21; XV, 4, 8,9;
EVIL I ED:
Tas dpkas Vii. 53 Vill, 3%
appdy (='IS) XXX, 1,
CeaurTgy X, 2,
2eyd 1, 4.
ceiouat 1, 6; XIV. 14
etpiy ERs
CeMyvayeyia viii, 3:

INDEX.

TO) TEE

rrepéoua XViii, 23 12
rrptyua XViii, E,

TeTapros Viii, 3.

Tnpite XXIV. 2.
TiBets Vii, 1,

riABe viii, 1.
OTdha V. 45 xiv. 2) 24
8; xxvii. 2.

XVI,

wrpibe XVI, 4.
FrpoBNéa XXxii, 4.
TUXos XViii, 115 XX, 7.
UK eugts
aioyos X, 13,
FUykotudouat 1X, 8,
FUiyyyt X, 11.
FUkrakate XV, 11.
rvirogite, XA,

Ta Totavra XXV, 7.
TOiXos XiV, 10,
Toda Vil, 4
T6goy XVii, 3.
Tmos Xvii. 1, 2, 35 Xviii, 10,
12) ir, 15; Xx. 2, 7, 8, KC.
XXL, I, 3d

Uy 1 09; ix, 7.
vty Xai, 0.
FUyEX® XX, 10,

FUvTekerhos X, 12.
FUTeAée X. I2 ; XViil, 10,

FvyTNpée X, 3.
FUvTnNpnzts
kai eipnlun 1, 8.
ruppirre XV, 11.

pay

\ኣ

ን

[4

Kai

ላ

gdyaros
[4

oXirka PIA

ete TEES
1

MetaorTukd Vii, 3.

Tagéy (corrupt) xviii, 7.
Takkeia
Ti]s ebXoyias Xi, 1.

repuaritety eis XV, 5,
rOpos 0 X, 19,

rakr]] XXX, 2,
grdres x11, 4.

gTéy XiV. 11) 17.
OTeyayuos 1x, 10:

Tevdte IX, 3; X11, 6.
gTepeds XXll, I XXVi, 5.

RXV

4.

ZeuuIX Vi, 7,
Zev xiii, 0.
Zep viii. 3.
otetioy Vili, 3.

agkere V. 1,
rkevos Viil, 1.
FkApokapiia XVi, 3.
FkMpokdpgtos V. 4.
ሇkADOS 1, 05 V. 45 XY. 11.
kp እaxeiy XXVi, 2.
FKOTetyS XX, 2,
Fkdros X, 4, 55 xvii. 0,
copia v. 85 viii, 3.
répha X, 35 Xxii, 75 Xxviil,

TDaXys X., 85 XXIV. 2.

Tpia XVII

pigpa xxv. 23 Xxxii, 3.
Seueta(Gs Vi, 3) 75 Vill, 35 ix, FXtyOS XXX, 25 XXXLle 1

IL.

Pak

Tpets Xi, 2.

eNiun Vii. 3.

75

BAUD

I; XIX, TS RNY
TOTE RY
UX: LISS iy
xiii, 3, 05 Xa. 4,5, 8, XXII.
Boe Ec, XXXVI,ge
Tovpui WI
Tpeke XIV. ፲4) 24.

#

kal Groaeta
XV, 1

riko 1.6.
TikTe Vil, 25 1X, 0,
Tin V. 15 XiV. 10,
Ttuaopée XX, 13,
TiTdy 1X, 0.
Totydp VY, 5,
TotovrTos

oka XV. 0,

eoTnpia V, 6,

TauuIN Mis
Tages 11, 1,
TaTetyds XXV], 4.
TaTetyoUy 1. 6.
Taprapos XXe 2
race 11. 15

Emi Tuyos XX. 52 8,
TEUXOS XIV, 0%,

Tékya Vi, 2; Vii, 35 XV. 5,
TEK»O® XV, 5,

TeNeiets 11, 2; X. 12, 145 Xvi,
Xi VILL, IO XV, A
TeXevrde 1X, 10,

TpiBe XXXL, 3
Tpis XXi1, 0.
TPF XINtos Wiii2:
Tpokos XIV. ፲3.

kai boos 1. 55 xiii, 3.
Tpopy] XiV. 13.
TpoXOs
Tog MAioy XViii, 4
es MAiov XIV. 18.
TupulX Vi, 7.

UBpayeys
SayeeNis xxviii, 3.
tU8ep xiii, 75 XY IL
Bo)

Xi, 2,0

XVI. 4»

KX

XVII, 2
NN
vide X, 1,155 Rh.

EIS)

RV, 0S

EV

oi —T®y Gvgperey Vi.1 5 viii,
I, XD

RV

LY

Vs

1s.
Ts ys x11, 4) ; XV, 3,

Toy ovpayoy Vi, 25 Xiii, 8
XIV, 3%
Ts ropyeias Xe 0,
Uuyee XXVi, 5.

UrdpXo V. 05 Xv. 0,
Urepexe xxiv. iN
Yveoluny Vi. 4.
Urepnepayia Ve 8.
TéሪAos X, 2 3 XVii1, 4.
Ter gapes 1X, 15 xviii,23 XXii, 2, Urvot Xiii, IO XIV, 2.

TeAée Xx, 12; XV1, 1.

XXVI,

GIZEH,

SYNCELLUS,

AND

VATICAN

| poyeve Xxii, 7) 12,
tr Ww. dat, XViii, 12,
pavos xi, 6.
Urogeikyuut Vili. 15 xii, 2.
Urokdre XIV. 19; xXviil, 12 povsd (= N51) xviii, 8,
ppgmrss Xxx, 3, ©.
XXVi, 2.
PuAAov xxiv, 4 85 axl,
tUrokdre UrG XXVi. 3.
4.
Ur gvmua xiii, 7.
Ta Pua VY. 1,
€peorrews xiii, 4 0,
@vreva x, 3.
UroTignue X. 5.
UYnAGs 1, 65 xi, 45 xiv. 185 @uvreve Xx. 3, 16, 195 xxvi, 5,
pvrov
RD
I
RD,
Tile Bekatoguvme X, 16,
UI
poyee
UWerros viii, 4; 1x. 35 Xx. 1,
Twvd (synon, Kayéeo Teva)
UYvos xviii. 115 XY. 35 xxv.
XiV. 8.
A aI de
bem ix, 25 xii, B53 xv.
Ppaysiy
Xx. 5, 6.
Peovny drpemy Aéyey ard
ek XXX, 6.
Tivos XXVI, 2,
paiyouat 1, 4, 85 i, 1 52
ቁ9s i, 85x, 5,
XVii, I.
dyagoy V. 6.
pavepgs ix, 5.
@9s kat Xaps Vv. 7, 8.
Papayg XY, 25 Xxvi. 3, 4, 5»
err 1, 15 xvii, 35 xx. 4)
OANA DS EE IY
papuaxeia vii, 15 Vii, 3.
XXiii, 4.
paoretvds xxii, 2, 0,
Papuapds Vi, 7 ; viii, 3,
porite
pacha 76 xv. 11,
pepouae xxviii, 3,
Gygpeoros reportreyos ¥.
pgeipe 11, 2,
pgive xxiv, 4.
Xaipe VY. 65 XXv. 6,
Paorrouvgeiy xxi, 5.
Pye XY. 12, 19, 22; Xx, 7.
Tept Twos Xii. ©.
Tip PAeyoy xiv. 175 xvii. XdAata xiv. 0 IO,
XaABdavn XXX, 1.
fe
Xdaos XX, 5,
ወእሪደ 1. 6.
poBéowat 1, 5 5 vi, 35 xii, 35
TOU Tupos X, 13.
Xapa VY. 05 X. 16,
XVI IO
poBepds xviii, 125 xxi, 2, 7, Xapts V. 7,8.
8,9.
Xda XViii, 11, 12.
Ta XeiAn
@PoBos 1, 55 xiii, 35 xiv, 13.
pote xxiv, 4.
Tey bapayyeoy Xxx, 3.

FRAGMENTS

287

Xetkeptvds XVii, 7,
Xetuey 11, 2.
Xeip x, 4
XepovBiy xiv, 11, 185 xx. 7.

XAeds ad.

XAtdges X, 17, 19,
XAorrs Vii, 1,
Xtovtkds XIV. 10.
Xtey XIV. 10) 13, 20.
XAopds ¥. 1.
Xp rs XXX, 1.
Xba XXX, 2.
Xpéyos Xx, 6; xxii, 45 xxvii,

3

Xpvctoy Vii, 1.
Xpeoka Xviii, 7.
Xol3alBunA Vi 7.

Xepite xxii, 8, 9, 11 12,
Xepis Xvi, 1.
XoXapA Vi, 7.
XOXuIN Vill, 3

Weta Vii, 1.
Veta Vv. 4.
VuX IX 310:

X14 3

os

3.

fe apkos XVie 1.
Wvxpas xiv. 13.
ge XIV, 245
62.105 EH

aE

NY
aE
3 EU RX

Datos XXIV, 9,

kai Kaxds Vi, 1.
os XVii, 15 XXXViii, 3,
aei xiv. 185 Xvii, 15 XXiV, 4
XXXL. 4

errepet ¥. 2,
Sgre Ww. inf, xiv, 16,

ADDENDA

ET

CORRIGENDA

Page 5, col. 2, line 9. For JVoyafionum read 4Vovafiasnaam,
10, note 24. For kpugrovrat read koyarglloovrat, and see discussion on passage
on Dp. XRXvii.
13, note 3. For‘ Gs omit read «G° omit ver. 6.
14, line 1. Emend AA; into AAC; with G.
16, note 19. arergioray which 1 have treated as an imperfect is probably
a unique aorist, In that case the reading of a, B~a9cy% should be followed.
17. In vii, 2 CG remove the obeli
19, lines 3 and 4.
read aiTéyl,

In G* for airy, Kai TapéBnray kai érእdiwmay rovs dyiousl,
2, kai rapégnoay Kai éerእdvmray Toys éyiovs,

2.

20, line 4 from bottom. For ‘EF Gs’ read ‘E G.
321, last line. For ‘note is read ‘note 139°
232, note 30. After #, BD add a full stop.
26, line 5 from bottom.
For ‘Gs’ read ‘GG.
398, line 11.

If in ove gorrat atrois eis Fxeov kat eipilvwy the construction eis €Aeoy

is original, then the original may have been ono [53D No = 0 Breas
atrovs eis SAeow, The construction is both Hebrew and Aramaic, Cp.
1 Kings viii. go (Targum in loc.); Dan. i. 9. But most probably ov gras
atrois 15 Corrupt fOr otk €oovra airoi eis EAeov= NNoRግ» Iiጋn (iNነn^) ERA
2 Chron. Xxx, 0.
37, note 9. For ‘note 23 ' read ‘note 24"
47, line 14. For Srrporat read dorparai.

OR

At end of note io add: the MS. reads: gieas and dorpards.
48, last line.

For dréceiya read sméxetya.

59, notei5.

FOr

79, note ao:

For ‘xi. 15 xxl, 5, 8’ read ‘x.

83, line io.

For Aifiraw; read Aa.

121,

RRS

XXX, 3 read RY

RRR
i Xx: 0,10:

At end of note 2 add: AለAANY; = SyyéAas = DSN, corrupt for bio2p.

OXFORD
PRINTED AT THE CLARENDON
BY

HORACE

PRINTER

TO

HART,
THE

M.A.

UNIVERSITY

PRESS

[IWNTVERSITY bf TORONT0
LIBRARY

Do

iF

not

ol5B7

reINmoOovc

sll,
Pt

the

card

| from

this

|

\

Pocket.

series.
Semitic

a

Oxoniensia
Anecaota

Acme

Library

Card

Pocket

Under Pat. «« Ref. Index File.”

i
EEE

Made by LIBRARY
EE

RPE

a ES

BUREAU

SR

DN
ON i ON

EY
NN

