THE QUEST FOR THE LOST
ARK OF THE COVENANT
P'vT’

,

’

~"N

archaeology/history/

$ 22.00

RELIGION

THE

SIGN
AN D THE
SEAL
GRAHAM
HANCOCK
This major work of historical detection

and true adventure reveals how Graham

Hancock located the Ark of the Covenant
after a search that began in 1983.

Acting on

the traditional beliefs of millions of Ethio-

pian Christians and Jews that the Ark was

somewhere in their country, Hancock
embarked on a quest that would take him
through archives in Europe, and to remote
corners of the Third World as well as Israel

and Egypt. In the course of his investigation
he discovered vital connections between this

awesomely powerful sacred object and the
Knights Templar, the legends of the Holy
Grail, Parsifal,

and the saga of the Falasha

Jews in Ethiopia.

The Bible, in more than two hundred
detailed references, describes the Ark of the
Covenant and delineates its whereabouts up
until the

time of Solomon (970-931

After that

it

b.c.).

vanishes from the Bible and

from the temple built by Solomon to house
the Ark. In this engrossing book Hancock

(continued on back flap)

DISCARD

* rt

i»

»«» trt f riw a fiv

APR

Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2017 with funding from

Kahle/Austin Foundation

https://archive.org/details/signsealquestfor00hanc_0

The Sign and the Seal
‘And as concerning the Ark of the Covenant
the work thereof is marvellous. It catcheth the eye
by force, and it astonisheth the mind and
stupefieth it 'with wonder. It is a spiritual thing and
is full of compassion; it is a heavenly thing and is
full of light; it is a thing of freedom and a
habitation of the Godhead, Whose habitation is in
heaven and Whose place of movement is on the
.

earth

.

.

.

.

Kebra Nagast Ethiopia, thirteenth century
,

(P) h 0®*?+

WY

:

ft

:Q C Y )

:

VI t A <F> L T +
'

:

:

O IH1 + A
•

rh

£ 01+ v
•

•

:

Also by Graham Hancock

Journey through Pakistan
Ethiopia: the Challenge of Hunge

AIDS: the Deadly Epidemic
Lords ofPoverty
African Ark: Peoples of the Horn

The Sign and the Seal
The Quest for the Lost Ark of the Covenant

Graham Hancock

CROWN PUBLISHERS, INC.
NEW YORK

——

Copyright

© 1992 by Graham Hancock

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced

or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or

mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any
information storage and retrieval system, without permission
in writing from the publisher.

Published by Crown Publishers, Inc., 201 East 50th Street,

New York, New York 10022. Member of the Crown
Publishing Group.

CROWN

is a

trademark of Crown Publishers, Inc.

Manufactured in the United States of America

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Hancock, Graham.

The sign and the seal

:

the quest for the lost Ark of the

Covenant / Graham Hancock,
cm.

p.
1.

Ark of the Covenant

Description and travel

Journeys

—

916.304

'

— 1981-

Ethiopia.

BM657.A8H36

— Miscellanea.

I.

3.

2.

Ethiopia

Hancock, Graham

Title.

1992

7— dc20

91-39041

CIP

ISBN 0-517-57813-1
10

987654 3 21

First American Edition

Contents

I

• •

Acknowledgements

Vll

Legend

I

i

Initiation

3

2

Disenchantment

23

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

4i

The Grail Cipher

43

II

3

4 A Map to Hidden Treasure
5 White Knights, Dark Continent
6 Resolving Doubts
7 A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

152
189

8 Into Ethiopia

191

9 Sacred Lake
io Ghost in a Maze

200
219
238

1 1

And David danced before the Ark

A Monstrous Instrument

IV

12 Magic ... or Method?
13 Treasures of Darkness

Where is the Glory?
14 The Glory is departed from Israel
Hidden History
16 Door of the Southern Countries
1 5

VI

121

Labyrinth

III

V

74
89

The Waste Land
17 Supping with Devils

.

.

.

271

273
3i3

357
359
400
43i
465
467

vi

Contents
1 8

A Treasure Hard to Attain

476

References
Index

517
589

.

*

Acknowledgements

First and foremost I want to thank Carol, my partner of ten years,
for the precious gifts she gave me. Our marriage did not survive
this

book. I hope that our friendship will. Thanks, too, to my

Sean and Leila, Luke and Gabrielle. You’ve paid a
heavy price for your dad’s commitment to his quest. I mean to
make it up to you. I’m enormously grateful to Donald and Muripl
Hancock, to James Macaulay, and to Harold Elborn, for their
constant support and interest, for their many readings of the
evolving manuscript, and for the wealth of helpful suggestions
and advice that they have offered. I would also like to put on
children:

record the appreciation that I feel for the invaluable contributions made by my friends Colin Skinner, Caroline Lasko, and
Claire Lasko. As well as reading the manuscript at various stages,

and commenting on it, they offered me consolation and solidarity
in times of trouble and put up patiently with my often exasperating behaviour. In Ethiopia, Professor Richard Pankhurst was
both a friend and a colleague to me. I’m honoured to have worked
so closely with him. And in England I benefitted greatly from the
input of a series of research assistants: Sadie Maine, Alex
MacIntyre, Claire Wise, David Mestecky and Julia Hallawell. In
addition, my Anglophone editors on both sides of the Atlantic,
Tom Weldon at Heinemann, Jim Wade at Crown, John Pearce at
Doubleday Canada, as well as my literary agents Bill Hamilton
and Sara Fisher, have all shown an interest in this project and a
commitment to it that has been above and beyond the call of duty.

Many other people in many different walks of life have also
helped along the way. Some would not want to be mentioned at
all and others will, I hope, forgive me for not setting out here a list

viii

Acknowledgements

that would be too long for the available space.

I

cannot close,

however, without expressing my very special thanks and gratitude
to one person in particular - Santha, who took most of the

photographs in this book and who saved my life.

Graham Hancock, March 1992

f

Part I: Ethiopia, 1983

Legend

Chapter i

Initiation: 1983

It was

growing dark and the air of the Ethiopian highlands was
chill when the monk appeared. Stooped and leaning on a prayer
stick he shuffled towards me from the doorway of the sanctuary
chapel and listened attentively as I was introduced to him.
Speaking in Tigrigna, the local language, he then sought
clarification through my interpreter about my character and my
motives: from which country had I come, what work did I do
there, was I a Christian, what was it that I wanted from him?
I answered each of these questions fully, squinting through the

gloom as I talked, trying to make out the details of my inquisitor’s
face. Milky cataracts veiled his small sunken eyes and deep lines
furrowed his black skin. He was bearded and probably toothless
- for although his voice was resonant it was also oddly slurred.
All I could be sure of, however, was that he was an old man, as old
as the century perhaps, that he had his wits about him, and that he
did not seem to be seeking information about me out of idle
curiosity. Only when he was satisfied with everything that I had
said did he condescend to shake hands with me. His grip was dry
and delicate as papyrus and from the thick robes that he wore,
faint but unmistakable, arose the holy odour of frankincense.
Now that the formalities were over I got straight to the point.
Gesturing in the direction of the building that loomed in shadowy
outline behind us, I said: ‘I have heard of an Ethiopian tradition
that the Ark of the Covenant is kept here ... in this chapel. I have
also heard that you are the guardian of the Ark. Are these things
true?’

‘They are true.’
‘But in other countries nobody believes these stories.

Few

4

Legend

know about your traditions anyway, but those who do say that
they are false.’

‘People may believe what they wish. People may say what they
wish. Nevertheless we do possess the sacred Tabot, that is to say

the Ark of the Covenant, and I am its guardian

.’
.

.

‘Let me be clear about this,’ I interjected. ‘Are you referring to
the original Ark of the Covenant - the box made of wood and gold
in which the Ten Commandments were placed by the prophet

Moses?’
‘Yes. God Himself inscribed the ten words of the law upon two
tablets of stone. Moses then placed these tablets inside the Ark of

the Covenant - which afterwards accompanied the Israelites

during their wanderings in the wilderness and their conquest of
the Promised Land. It brought them victory wherever they went

and made them a great people. At last, when its work was done,
King Solomon placed it in the Holy of Holies of the Temple that
he had built in Jerusalem. And from there, not long afterwards, it
.’
was removed and brought to Ethiopia
‘Tell me how this happened,’ I asked. ‘What I know of your
traditions is only that the Queen of Sheba is supposed to have
been an Ethiopian monarch. The legends I have read say that
when she made her famous journey to Jerusalem she was
impregnated by King Solomon and bore him a son - a royal
.’
prince - who in later years stole the Ark
The monk sighed. ‘The name of the prince you are speaking of
was Menelik - which in our language means “the son of the wise
man”. Although he was conceived in Jerusalem he was born in
Ethiopia where the Queen of Sheba had returned after discovering that she was carrying Solomon’s child. When he had reached
the age of twenty, Menelik himself travelled from Ethiopia to
Israel and arrived at his father’s court. There he was instantly
recognized and accorded great honour. After a year had passed,
however, the elders of the land became jealous of him. They
complained that Solomon showed him too much favour and they
insisted that he must go back to Ethiopia. This the king accepted
on the condition that the first-born sons of all the elders should
also be sent to accompany him. Amongst these latter was Azarius,
son of Zadok the High Priest of Israel, and it was Azarius, not
Menelik, who stole the Ark of the Covenant from its place in the
.

.

.

.

Initiation

5

Holy of Holies in the Temple. Indeed the group of young men
did not reveal the theft to Menelik until they were far away from
Jerusalem. When at last they told him what they had done he
understood that they could not have succeeded in so bold a
venture unless God had willed it. Therefore he agreed that the
Ark should remain with them. And it was thus that it was brought
to Ethiopia, to this sacred city
and here it has remained ever
.

.

.

since.’

‘And are you telling me that this legend is literally true?’
‘It is

not a legend. It is history.’

‘How can you be so sure of that?’
‘Because I am the guardian. I know the nature of the object
that has been placed in my care.’

We sat in silence for a few moments while

I

adjusted my mind

to the calm and rational way in which the monk had told me these

bizarre and impossible things. Then I asked him how and why he

had been appointed to his position. He replied that it was a great
honour that he should have been chosen, that he had been
nominated with the last words of his predecessor, and that when
he himself lay on his death-bed his turn would come to nominate
his own successor.

‘What qualities will you look for in that man?’
‘Love of God, purity of heart, cleanliness of mind and body.’
‘Other than you,’ I asked next, ‘is anyone else allowed to see
the Ark?’

‘No. I alone may see it.’

‘So does that mean that it is never brought out of the sanctuary
chapel?’

The guardian paused for a long while before answering this
question. Then, finally, he told me that in the very distant past the
relic had been brought out during all the most important church
festivals.

More recently its use in religious processions had been

limited to just one occasion a year.

That occasion was the

ceremony known as Tinikat which took place every January.
‘So if I come back next January will I have a chance of seeing
the Ark?’

The monk looked at me in a way that I found strangely
disconcerting and then said: ‘You must know that there is turmoil
Our government is evil, the people
and civil war in the land
.

.

.

Legend

6

oppose it, and the fighting comes closer every day. In such
circumstances it is unlikely that the true Ark will be used again in
the ceremonies. We cannot risk the possibility that any harm
Besides, even in time of
might come to something so precious
peace you would not be able to see it. It is my responsibility to
.

wrap

it

.

.

entirely in thick cloths before

processions

it

is

carried in the

.’
.

.

‘Why do you wrap it?’
‘To protect the laity from it.’

remember asking my interpreter to clarify the translation of
this last puzzling remark: had the monk really meant ‘to protect
the laity from it’? Or had he meant ‘to protect it from the laity’?
It was some time before I got my answer. ‘To protect the laity
from it. The Ark is powerful.’
I

A great mystery of the Bible
Old Testament times the Ark of the Covenant was
worshipped by the Israelites as the embodiment of God Himself,
as the sign and the seal of His presence on earth, as the
stronghold of His power, and as the instrument of His ineffable
will. Btiilt to contain the tablets of stone upon which the Ten
Commandments had been written, it was a wooden chest
In early

1

measuring three feet nine inches long by two feet three inches
2
high and wide. It was lined inside and out with pure gold and
was surmounted by two winged figures of cherubim that faced
each other across its heavy golden lid. 3
Biblical and other archaic sources speak of the Ark blazing
with fire and light, inflicting cancerous tumours and severe
burns, levelling mountains, stopping rivers, blasting whole
armies and laying waste cities. The same sources also leave no
doubt that it was, for a very long time, the cornerstone of the
evolving Jewish faith: indeed when King Solomon built the First
Temple in Jerusalem his sole motive was to create ‘an house of
rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord’. 4 At some unknown
date between the tenth and the sixth century bc, however, this
uniquely precious and puissant object vanished from its place in
the Holy of Holies of that Temple, vanished without song or
lamentation in the Scriptures - almost as though it had never

Initiation

7

existed at all. The evidence suggests that it was already long gone

when the armies of Nebuchadnezzar burned Jerusalem in 587
bc. Certainly it was not in the Second Temple which was built
over the ruins of the First after the Jews had returned from their
exile in Babylon in 538 bc. Neither does it seem to have been

taken as booty by the Babylonians.

Writing in 1987, Richard Elliott Friedman, Professor of
Hebrew and Comparative Religion at the University of
California, expressed a view shared by many scholars when he
described the disappearance of the sacred relic as ‘one of the
great mysteries of the Bible
5

:

There is no report that the Ark was carried away or
destroyed or hidden. There is not even any comment
such as ‘And then the Ark disappeared and we do not
know what happened to it’ or ‘And no one knows where it
is to this day’. The most important object in the world, in
the biblical view, simply ceases to be in the story.’ 5

Indeed so. A close reading of the Old Testament reveals more
than two hundred separate references to the Ark of the Covenant
up until the time of Solomon (970-931 bc); after the reign of that
6
wise and splendid king it is almost never mentioned again. And
this, surely, is the central problem, the real historical enigma: not,
human nature being what it is, that an immensely valuable golden
chest should go missing, but - given its supreme religious
significance - that it should go missing amidst such a deafening,
improbable silence. Like a black hole in space, or a negative
photographic image, it is identifiable in the later books of the Old
T estament only by what it is not - it is, in short, conspicuous only

by its absence.

From this it seems reasonable to suggest that some sort of
cover-up may have taken place - a cover-up devised by priests
and scribes to ensure that the whereabouts of the sacred relic
would remain forever a secret. If so then it is a secret that many
have tried to penetrate - a secret that has inspired several
treasure-hunting expeditions (all of which have failed) and also
one enormously successful Hollywood fantasy, Raiders ofthe Lost

8

Legend

Ark which was first released in the USA and Europe in 1981
,

with Harrison Ford in the starring role as Indiana Jones.
I was living in Kenya at the time and had no opportunity to see
the film until it finally arrived in Nairobi’s cinemas early in 1983.
I

enjoyed the combination of action, adventure and archaeology

and I remember thinking what a sensation it would be if someone
were really to find the Ark. Then, only a few months later, I made
an extended visit to Ethiopia during which I travelled to the
north-west of the war-torn province of Tigray. It was there, in
Axum - the so-called ‘sacred city of the Ethiopians’ 7 - that I had

my encounter with the guardian monk reported earlier in this
chapter.

1983: a country at war

On 28 May 1991, after years of brutal fighting, the government
of Ethiopia was finally toppled by a formidable coalition of rebel
forces in which the Tigray People’s Liberation Front had played
a leading role.

When I went to Axum in 1983, however, the

TPLF was still a relatively small guerilla force and the sacred
city,

although besieged, was still in government hands. Other

than rftyself, no foreigners had been there since 1974 when a
team of British archaeologists had been driven out by the
revolution that had overthrown Emperor Haile Selassie and that

had installed one of Africa’s bloodiest dictators, LieutenantColonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, as Head of State.
Lamentably the free access that I was granted to Axum did not
result from any special enterprise or initiative of my own but from
the fact that I was working for Mengistu. As a result of a business
deal that I was later bitterly to regret I was engaged in 1 983 in the
production of a coffee-table book about Ethiopia - a book that
Mengistu’s government had commissioned in order to proclaim
the underlying unity in the country’s cultural diversity, and to
emphasize the ancient historical integrity of the political
boundaries that the rebels were trying so hard to redraw. It had
been agreed before I began work that there would be no overt
promotion of the government’s cause, and it was written into my
contract that no particular individuals (Mengistu included)
would be praised or vilified. Nevertheless I was under no

Initiation

9

illusions about how the project was viewed by senior figures in

the regime: they would not have footed the bills, or permitted me
to visit historic sites forbidden to others, if they did not think that

what I was doing would be helpful to them.
Even so it was by no means easy for me to get to Axum. Intense
rebel activity along the main roads and around the sacred city
itself meant that driving was completely out of the question. The
only option, therefore, was to fly in. To this end - together with
my wife and researcher Carol and my photographer Duncan

- I travelled first to Asmara (the regional capital of
Eritrea) where I hoped that it might be possible for us to hitch a
ride over the battle lines on one of the many military aircraft

Willetts

stationed there.

Standing on a high and fertile plateau overlooking the
fearsome deserts of the Eritrean coastal strip, Asmara is a most
attractive place with a markedly Latin character - not surprising
since it was first occupied by Italian forces in 1889 and remained
an Italian stronghold until the decolonization of Eritrea (and its
8
annexation by the Ethiopian state) in the 1950s. Everywhere we
looked we saw gardens erupting with the colour of bougainvillaea, flamboyants and jacaranda, while the warm, sunny air
that surrounded us had an unmistakable Mediterranean
bouquet. There was also another element that was hard to miss:
the presence of large numbers of Soviet and Cuban combat
‘advisers’ wearing camouflage fatigues and carrying Kalashnikov
assault rifles as they swaggered up and down the fragrant pastel-

shaded boulevards.

The

advice that these thickset

men were

giving to

the

Ethiopian army in its campaign against Eritrean separatists did
not, however, appear to us to be very good. Asmara’s hospitals
were crammed to bursting point with casualties of the war and
the government officials we met exuded an air of pessimism and
tension.

Our concerns were heightened a few nights later in the bar of
Asmara’s rather splendid Ambasoira Hotel where we met two
Zambian pilots who were on temporary secondment to Ethiopian
Airlines. They had thought that they were going to be spending
six months expanding their practical experience of commercial
flying.

What they were actually doing, however, was ferrying

io

Legend

injured soldiers from the battle fronts in Tigray and Eritrea to the
hospitals in Asmara. They had tried to get the airline to release

them from this hazardous duty; on checking the small print of
their contracts, however, they

had discovered that they were

bound to do it.
After several weeks of almost continuous sorties in aged dc 3

passenger planes converted to carry wounded troops, the two
pilots were shell-shocked, shaky and embittered. They told us
that they had both taken to the bottle to drown their sorrows: ‘I
can’t sleep at night unless I’m completely drunk,’ one of them
confided. ‘I keep getting these pictures passing through my mind

of the things that I’ve seen.’ He went on to describe the teenage
boy who, that morning, had been dragged aboard his aircraft with
his left foot blown away by a mine, and another young soldier who
had lost half his skull after a mortar bomb had exploded nearby.
people with huge
‘The shrapnel wounds are the worst
it’s horrible
injuries in their backs, stomachs, faces
sometimes the whole cabin is just swilling with blood and guts
we carry as many as forty casualties at a time - way above the
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

operating limits of a DC3, but we have to take the risk, we can’t
just leave those people to die.’

They were required to fly three, sometimes four, missions each
day, the other pilot now added. In the past week he had been twice
to

Axum and on both occasions his plane had been hit by machine-

gun fire. ‘It’s a very difficult airport - a gravel runway surrounded by
hills. The TPLF just sit up there and take pot-shots at us as we land
and take off. They’re not fooled by the Ethiopian Airlines livery.
They know we’re on military business
Overjoyed to have found some sympathetic non-Russian and
non-Cuban foreigners to share their woes with, the Zambians
had not yet asked us what we were doing in Ethiopia. They did so
now, and seemed highly amused when we replied that we were
producing a coffee-table book for the government. We then
explained that we needed to get to Axum ourselves.
‘Why?’ they asked, dumbfounded.
‘Well, because it’s one of the oldest and most important
archaeological sites and because it was there that Ethiopian
Christianity first got started. It was the capital for hundreds of
.’

.

.

years. Our book’s going to look really sick without it.’

1

Initiation

1

'We might be able to take you/ one of the pilots now suggested.
‘What - you mean when you next go to pick up wounded?’
‘No. You definitely wouldn’t be allowed on those flights. But a
delegation of military top brass are supposed to be going there
the day after tomorrow to inspect the garrison. Maybe you could

hitch a ride then. It would depend on what sort of strings you’re

able to pull back in Addis. Why don’t you check it out?’

Into Axum

We spent most of the next day on the telephone to Addis Ababa
talking to the minister directly responsible for our project. It was

touch and go, but his influence finally did get us seats on the flight
that our Zambian friends had told us about. In the event,
however, they were not to be our pilots; a fully Ethiopian crew
was on board the DC3 for the short hop to Axum.
During the one-hour delay before our morning take-off from
Asmara airport, and during the turbulent thirty- five -minute
journey itself, I completed my background reading - reassuring
myself in the process that the visit really was worthwhile.
The early historical references painted a picture of an
important and cosmopolitan urban centre. In ad 64, for
example, the anonymous author of a Greek trading manual
known as the Periplus of the Erythrean Sea had referred to the
Axumite ruler as being ‘a prince superior to most and educated
with a knowledge of Greek’. 9 Some hundreds of years later a
certain Julian, ambassador of the Roman Emperor Justinian,
described Axum in glowing terms as ‘the greatest city of all
Ethiopia’. The king, he added, was almost naked, wearing only a
garment of linen embroidered with gold from his waist to his
loins and straps set with pearls over his back and stomach. He
wore golden bracelets on his arms, a golden collar around his
neck, and on his head a linen turban - also embroidered with

- from which hung four fillets on either side. When
receiving the ambassador’s credentials, this monarch apparently
gold

stood on a four-wheeled chariot drawn by four elephants; the
10
body of the chariot was high and covered with gold plates.
In the sixth century ad, a much-travelled Christian monk,

Cosmas Indicopleustes, added further colour to the impression

Legend

12

conveyed by Julian. After his visit to the city he reported that the
‘four-towered palace of the King of Ethiopia' was adorned with
‘four brazen figures’ of a unicorn, as well as the skin of a
rhinoceros ‘stuffed with chaff. He also saw several giraffes which
had been caught 'by command of the King when young and
11
tamed to make a show for his amusement’.
These images of barbaric splendour well befitted the capital of
what had by that time become the most important power between
the Roman Empire and Persia - a power that sent its merchant
navies as far afield as Egypt, India, Ceylon and China and that
had adopted Christianity as its state religion as early as the fourth
century ad.

The story of the conversion of Ethiopia is preserved in the
writings of the fourth-century Byzantine theologian Rufinius -

an authority highly regarded by modern historians. Apparently a
certain Meropius, a Christian merchant described by Rufinius as
a ‘philosopher of Tyre’, once made a voyage to India, taking with
him two Syrian boys whom he was educating in ‘humane studies’.
The elder was called Frumentius and the younger Aedesius. On
their return journey through the Red Sea the ship was seized off
the Ethiopian coast in an act of reprisal against the Eastern
Roman Empire which had broken a treaty with the people of the
area.

Meropius was killed in the fighting. The boys, however,
survived and were taken to the Axumite King, Ella Amida, who
promptly made Aedesius his cup-bearer and Frumentius - the
more sagacious and prudent of the two - his treasurer and
secretary. The boys were held in great honour and affection by
the king who, however, died shortly afterwards leaving his widow
and an infant son - Ezana - as his heir. Before his death, Ella
Amida had given the two Syrians their freedom but now the
widowed queen begged them, with tears in her eyes, to stay with
her until her son came of age. She asked in particular for the help
of Frumentius - for Aedesius, though loyal and honest at heart,
was simple.
During the years that followed, the influence of Frumentius in
the Axumite kingdom grew. He sought out such foreign traders
who were Christians and urged them ‘to establish conventicles in
various places to which they might resort for prayer.’ He also

Initiation

13

provided them with ‘whatever was needed, supplying sites for
buildings and in every way promoting the growth of the seed of
Christianity in the country.’

At around the time that Ezana finally ascended the throne,
Aedesius returned to Tyre. Frumentius for his part journeyed to
Alexandria, in Egypt - then a great centre of Christianity - where
he informed Patriarch Athanasius of the work so far accomplished for the faith in Ethiopia. The young man begged the
ecclesiastical leader ‘to look for some worthy man to send as
bishop over the many Christians already congregated.’
Athanasius, having carefully weighed and considered the words
of Frumentius, declared in a council of priests: ‘What other man

whom the spirit of God is as in thee who can
accomplish these things?’ He therefore ‘consecrated him and
shall we find in

12

bade him return in the Grace of God whence he came.’
Frumentius accordingly went back to Axum as Ethiopia’s first
Christian bishop and there he continued his missionary
endeavours - which were rewarded, in the year ad 331, by the
conversion of the king himself. The surviving coins of Ezana’s
reign record the transition: the earlier ones bear crescent and
disk images of the new and full moon; later examples are stamped

uncompromisingly with the cross - amongst the earliest coins of
13
any country to carry this Christian symbol.
Important as the seed-bed of Ethiopian Christianity - and as
the capital of the Ethiopian empire from the first until approximately the tenth century ad -- Axum’s interest in terms of our
project was nevertheless much broader than this. Here, I read,

we
would come across many imposing pre-Christian ruins of great
archaeological merit (including the remains of several immense
palaces), and also - still well preserved - the monuments for
which the city was best known: its ancient obelisks, some more
than two thousand years old, attesting to a high level of
advancement in art and architecture at a date far earlier than that
of any other civilization in sub-Saharan Africa. Nor were such
physical artefacts the only witnesses to Axum’s unique stature.

To my astonishment, the reference works I had with me reported
that according to Ethiopian legends the Ark of the Covenant was

kept here in a small chapel adjacent to an especially sacred
church. The legends were connected to Ethiopia’s claim to have

14

Legend

been the realm of the biblical Queen of Sheba but were generally
dismissed by historians as preposterous fictions.
Having only recently seen the first Indiana Jones movie,
Raiders of the Lost Ark, I was naturally intrigued by the possibility
- however remote - that the most precious and mystical relic of
Old Testament times, a relic believed to have been lost for almost
three thousand years, might actually rest in the city I was about to
visit. I therefore decided that I would not leave without learning
more about this strange tradition and I looked down with
renewed interest when the captain announced that Axum was
directly beneath us.
The dc3’s descent to the narrow runway far below was
unorthodox in the extreme - and quite alarming. Instead of the
usual long, low and slow approach, the pilot brought the plane
down very fast from a considerable altitude in a tight corkscrew
pattern that kept us at all times directly above the town. This, one
of the military men riding with us explained, was so as to
minimize the time that we would be a target for snipers in the
surrounding hills. I remembered what the Zambians had said
about regularly getting hit by machine-gun fire when landing at
Axum and prayed silently that this would not happen to us. It was
an unpleasant feeling to be strapped into a flimsy seat in a narrow
tube of metal hundreds of feet above the ground and to wonder
whether, at any moment, bullets were going to start plunking
through the cabin floor and walls.
Fortunately nothing so bad happened that morning and we
touched down safely. I remember the red gravel of the strip, the
dust that flew up as the wheels made contact, and the sight of
large numbers of Ethiopian soldiers - all armed to the teeth and
dressed in combat fatigues - staring at us intently as we taxied to a
halt. I noticed other things as well: trenches had been dug on
both sides of the runway and there were numerous pits, covered
with camouflage netting, out of which protruded the barrels of
heavy artillery pieces. I recall several armoured personnel
carriers lined up near the tower and perhaps half-a-dozen Soviet
tanks. Parked off to one side, on the apron, there were also two
Mi- 24 helicopter gunships with rocket pods visible beneath their
stubby stabilizing fins.

From the beginning to the end of our visit, Axum never for a

Initiation

15

second shed the jittery and watchful atmosphere of a city under
siege. We were permitted to stay only one night but we felt as
though our time there was drawn-out, protracted, almost infinite.

Palaces, catacombs and obelisks

Our work began the moment that we arrived. Waiting to greet us
as we stepped down from the plane was an elderly Abyssinian
gendeman wearing a slightly threadbare three-piece suit and a
most splendid patriarchal beard. In quaint but excellent English,
he introduced himself as Berhane Meskel Zelelew and explained
that he had been contacted by radio from Addis Ababa and
ordered to guide us and act as our interpreter. He was employed,
he said, by the Ministry of Culture ‘to keep an eye on the
antiquities of Axum\ In this capacity he had helped the
archaeologists from the British Institute in Eastern Africa whose
excavations of some of the city’s most interesting ruins had been
14
‘It’s so nice to see other
interrupted by the revolution of 1974.
British people here after such a long time,’ he exclaimed as we

introduced ourselves.
We climbed into a vintage Land Rover with a lime-green paint
job and two neat bullet holes in the front windscreen. ‘Fortunately no one was killed,’ Zelelew reassured us when we asked

him about these. Laughing nervously as we drove away from the
airfield, I then explained what we had come to do, listed the
historic sites that we wanted to visit, and told him that I was
particularly intrigued by Axum’s claim to be the last resting place
of the Ark of the Covenant.
‘Do you believe that the Ark is here?’ I asked.
‘Yes. Certainly.’

‘And where is it exactly?’
‘It is

deposited in a chapel near the centre of the city.’

‘Is this chapel very old?’

‘No. Its construction was ordered by our late Emperor ... in

1965 I think. Before that the relic had rested for many hundreds
of years within the Holy of Holies of the nearby church of Saint
.’ Zelelew paused, then added: ‘Haile Selassie
Mary of Zion
had a special interest in this matter, by the way ... He was the two
hundred and twenty-fifth direct-line descendant of Menelik, son
.

.

Legend

16

of the Queen of Sheba and King Solomon. It was Menelik who
.’
brought the Ark of the Covenant to our country
.

.

was all for visiting the chapel at once, but Zelelew persuaded
me that there was little point in hurrying: ‘you will not be allowed
anywhere near the Ark. Where it rests is holy ground. The monks
and the citizens of Axum protect it and they would not hesitate to
kill anyone who tried to break in. Just one man is allowed to enter
and he is the monk responsible for guarding the Ark. We will try
to meet him later today, but first let us go and see the Queen of
I

Sheba’s palace.’
After we had assented to this attractive proposition we turned
on to a bumpy, potholed road that - had we been able to follow it
all the way - would eventually have led us hundreds of miles
south-west, through the gigantic peaks and valleys of the Simien
mountains, to the city of Gondar near Lake Tana. In open
country barely a mile from the centre of Axum, however, we

stopped within sight of an extensively fortified military post
which, Zelelew explained, marked the limit of the governmentcontrolled sector.

He waved expressively at the nearby hills:

‘Everything else TPLF, so we cannot go. It’s a pity. There are so

many interesting things to see

There, just around that corner
in the road, are the granite quarries where all the stelae were cut.
One still remains partially unexcavated from the rock. And there
is a beautiful carving of a lioness. It is very ancient. It was put
there before the coming of Christianity. But unfortunately we
cannot reach it.’
.

.

.

‘How far is it exactly?’ I asked, tantalized.
‘Very close, less than three kilometres. But the military will not
let us past the checkpoint and if they did

we would certainly be

taken by the guerillas. Even here we should not stand around
for too long.

Your foreign faces will be noticed by the TPLF

snipers. They might think you are Russians and decide to shoot
at

you

.

.

.’

He laughed: ‘That would be highly undesirable, would it

not? Come, follow me.’

He led the way into fields to the north of the road and we
quickly began to stumble across the remains of what must, once,

have been an imposing building. ‘This was the Queen of Sheba’s
palace,’ Zelelew announced proudly. ‘According to our traditions her name was Makeda and Axum was her capital. I know

7

Initiation

1

that foreigners do not accept that she was an Ethiopian at all.

Nevertheless no other country has a stronger claim than ours.’
I

asked whether any archaeology had ever been done on the

site to test the legends.

‘Yes, in the late 1960s the Ethiopian Institute of Archaeology

conducted some excavations here ... I helped on the dig.’
‘And what was discovered?’
Zelelew made a mournful face. ‘The opinion was that the
palace was not sufficiently old to have been the residence of the

Queen of Sheba.’
What the archaeologists had unearthed, and what we now
spent some time exploring, were the ruins of a great and well built
edifice with finely mortared stone walls, deep foundations and an

impressive drainage system.

We saw a still-intact flagstone floor

- which Zelelew claimed was a large throne room - and a number
of stair-wells which hinted at the existence of at least one upper

There were also private bathing areas of sophisticated
design and a well-preserved kitchen dominated by two brick

storey.

ovens.

Across the road, in a field facing the palace, we then inspected
a number of rough-hewn granite stelae, some standing more
than fifteen feet high, some fallen and broken. Most were
undecorated but one, the largest, was carved with four horizontal
bands, each band topped by a row of circles in relief - like
protruding beam ends in a building made of wood and stone.
This crude obelisk, Zelelew told us, was thought by the
townspeople to mark the grave of the Queen of Sheba. No
excavation work had been carried out beneath it, however, and
the field was now entirely given over to farmers who grew crops
for the Axum garrison. Even as we talked we saw two peasant
boys approach with an ox, which they harnessed to a wooden
plough. Oblivious to the history that lay all around them, and
apparently indifferent to our presence as well, they began to till
the soil.

After we had finished taking pictures and notes we drove back
into the centre of the city and then out again to the north-east to

another palace complex, this one on a hill-top with commanding
views of the whole area. Square in plan, the structure measured
about two hundred feet on each side. The walls, which had long

18

Legend

since crumbled, showed signs of having originally been projected
at the

corners to form four towers - possibly the very towers

which, in the sixth century, the monk Cosmas had described as
being adorned with brass unicorns.

Beneath the fortress Zelelew then led us down steep stone
stairways into a number of underground galleries and chambers
which were roofed and walled with massive dressed granite
blocks that fitted precisely against one another without any
mortar in the joints. Local tradition, he said, identified this cool
dark warren as the treasury used by Emperor Kaleb (ad 514542) and also by his son Gebre-Maskal. With the aid of a
flashlight we saw the empty stone coffers which lay within coffers believed to have once contained great riches in gold and
15
Further rooms, as yet unexcavated, extended into the
pearls.
hillside from there, blocked off behind thick granite walls.
Eventually we left the hill-top fortress and made our way down
into the centre of Axum on a gravel road. Near the bottom of the
gradient, to our left, we paused to photograph a large, open
deep-water reservoir dug down into the red granite of the hillside
and approached by means of rough-hewn stairways. Known as
the Mai Shum, it seemed to us very old - an impression that
Zelelew confirmed when he remarked that it was originally the
Queen of Sheba’s pleasure bath: ‘At least so our people believe.
Since the beginning of Christian times it has been used for
baptismal ceremonies to celebrate the Holy Epiphany, which we
call Timkat. And of course the peasants still come here every day
to draw their water.’ As though to confirm this last observation he
pointed to a group of women carefully descending the time-worn
steps bearing gourds on their heads.
By now, without any of us really noticing how the time had
passed, it was already well past the middle of the afternoon.
Zelelew urged us to hurry, pointing out that we were scheduled
to fly back to Asmara at first light the next day and that we still had

much to see.
Our next destination was close by, the so-called ‘Park of the
- certainly the focal point of Axum’s archaeological
interest. Here we examined and photographed a remarkable
Stelae’

series of giant obelisks carved from slabs of solid granite. The

most massive of these, a tumbled fractured ruin, was believed to

Initiation

19

have fallen to the ground more than a thousand years previously.
In its heyday, though, it had stood one hundred and ten feet tall
and must have dominated the entire area. I remembered from the
reading I had done on the flight that its weight was estimated to

exceed five hundred tons. It was thought to be the largest single
piece of stone ever successfully quarried and erected in the
ancient world.

This fallen stele was painstakingly hewn to mimic a high,
slender building of thirteen storeys - each storey complete with
elaborate representations of windows and other details, and
demarcated from the next by a row of symbolic beam-ends. At
the base could be discerned a false door complete with a knocker
and lock, all perfectly carved in stone.
Another fallen - but much smaller and unbroken - obelisk,
Zelelew told us, had been stolen during the Italian occupation of
1935-41, transported with enormous difficulty to Rome by
Mussolini, and re-erected near the Arch of Constantine. Since
it, too, was elaborately carved - and therefore of great artistic
value - the Ethiopian government was campaigning for its return.
In the meantime, however, it was fortunate that a third decorated
monolith still remained in situ in the stelae park.
With a flourish our guide now pointed to this towering stone
needle, more than seventy feet high and topped with a curved
headpiece shaped like a half moon. We strolled over to examine it
properly and found that, like its huge neighbour, it had been
carved to resemble a conventional built-up structure - in this
case a nine-storey building in the fashion of a tower-house. Once
again, the main decoration on the front elevation was provided by
the semblance of windows and of beams of timber supposedly
inserted horizontally into the walls. The intervals between each

of the floors were defined by rows of symbolic log-ends, and the
house-like appearance was further enhanced by the presence of a
false door.

Several other stelae of varying sizes were ranged around this
refined monument - all of them clearly the products of an

advanced, well organized and prosperous culture. Nowhere else
in sub-Saharan Africa had anything even remotely similar been
built and, for this reason, Axum was a mystery - its antecedents

unknown, the sources of its inspiration unremembered.

20

Legend
*

The sanctuary chapel
Across the road, directly opposite the park of the stelae, stood a
spacious walled compound containing two churches - one old
and the other obviously much more recent. These, Zelelew told
us, were both dedicated to Saint Mary of Zion. The new one,
which had a domed roof and a lofty bell-tower in the shape of an
obelisk, had been built by Haile Selassie in the 1960s. The other
dated back to the mid-seventeenth century and was the work of
Emperor Fasilidas - who, like so many Ethiopian monarchs
before and since, had been crowned in Axum and had venerated
the sacred city despite making his capital elsewhere.

We found Haile Selassie’s pretentious modern ‘cathedral’ as
unpleasant as
was uninteresting. We were attracted, however,
it

to the Fasilidas construction which, with its turrets and crenel-

lated battlements, seemed to us ‘half church of God, half castle’

- and thus to belong to a truly ancient Ethiopian tradition in
which the distinctions between the military and the clergy were
often blurred.
In the dimly lit interior I was able to study several striking

murals including one depicting the story of the life of Mary,
another that of the Crucifixion and Resurrection of Christ, and a
third the legend of Saint Yared - the supposed inventor of
Ethiopia’s eerie church music. Faded with age, this latter work
showed Yared performing before King Gebre-Maskal. The
saint’s foot had been pierced by a spear dropped from the
monarch’s hand but both men were so entranced by the music of
sistrum and drum that they had not noticed.

Not far from the old church were the ruins of a building that
must once have been very extensive but was now reduced to little
more than its deeply entrenched foundations. These, Zelelew
explained, were the remains of the original Saint Mary of Zion which had been built in the fourth century ad at the time of the
conversion of the Axumite kingdom to Christianity. Some twelve
hundred years later, in 1 5 3 5 it had been razed to the ground by a
fanatical Muslim invader, Ahmed Gragn (‘the left-handed’),
whose forces swept across the Horn of Africa from Harar in the
east and, at one time, threatened the complete extinction of
,

Ethiopian Christendom.

Initiation

21

Shortly before its destruction, this 'first Saint Mary's’ - as

Zelelew called it -- was visited by an itinerant Portuguese friar
named Francisco Alvarez. I later looked up his description of it the only one that survives:

and has five naves of a good width and of a
great length, vaulted above, and all the vaults are covered
up, and the ceiling and sides are all painted; it also has a
choir after our fashion
This noble church has a very
large circuit, paved with flagstones, like gravestones, and
it has a large enclosure, and is surrounded by another
16
large enclosure like the wall of a large town or city.
It is very large

.

.

.

Zelelew rightly dated the start of construction works on the
17 which meant that this was quite
first Saint Mary's at ad 3 72
possibly the earliest Christian church in sub-Saharan Africa. A
great five-aisled basilica, it was regarded from its inauguration as
the most sacred place in all Ethiopia. This was so because it was
built to house the Ark of the Covenant - which, if there was any
truth to the legends, must have arrived in the country long before
the birth of Jesus and must then have been co-opted by the
Christian hierarchy at some point after the new religion had been
officially adopted by the Axumite state.

When Alvarez visited Saint Mary's in the 1520s - becoming, in
document the Ethiopian
version of the legend of the Queen of Sheba and the birth of her
18
only son Menelik - the Ark was still in the Holy of Holies of the
the process, the

ancient church.

first

It

European

to

did not stay there for very

much longer,

however. In the early 1530s, with the invading armies of Ahmed
Gragn drawing ever closer, the sacred relic was removed 'to
some other place of safekeeping’ (Zelelew did not know where).
It

thus escaped the destruction and looting that the Muslims

unleashed upon Axum in 1535.

A hundred years later, with peace restored throughout the
empire, the Ark was brought back in triumph and installed in the
second Saint Mary's - built by Fasilidas beside the razed remains

of the first. And there apparently it stayed until 1965 when Haile
Selassie had it moved to the new and more secure chapel put up

Legend

22

at the same time as his own grandiose cathedral but annexed to

the seventeenth-century church.

was in the grounds of Haile

It

Selassie’s chapel that the

guardian monk told me his astonishing story about the Ark and

warned me that it was ‘powerful’.
‘How powerful?’ I asked. ‘What do you mean?’
The guardian’s posture stiffened and he seemed suddenly to
grow more alert. There was a pause. Then he chuckled and put a
question to me: ‘Have you seen the stelae?’
‘Yes’, I replied, ‘I have seen them.’

‘How do you think they were raised up?’
I

confessed that I did not know.

‘The Ark was used,’ whispered the monk darkly, ‘the Ark and
the celestial fire. Men alone could never have done such a thing.’
On my return to the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, I
took the opportunity to conduct some research into the historical
merits of the legend that the guardian had related to me. I wanted
to find out whether there was any possibility at all that the Queen
of Sheba could have been an Ethiopian monarch. And if there
was, then could she really have journeyed to Israel in the time of

Solomon - around three thousand years ago? Could she have
been impregnated by the Jewish king? Could she have borne him
a son named Menelik? Most importantly, could that son have
made his way to Jerusalem as a young man, spent a year there at
his father’s court, and then returned to Axum with the Ark of the
Covenant?

Chapter 2

Disenchantment

Questions of the kind that I needed to ask in order to evaluate

Axum’s claim to be the last resting place of the Ark of the
Covenant were not entirely welcome in Addis Ababa in 1983.
There was still a certain amount of revolutionary jingoism in the
air less than nine years after Haile Selassie had been overthrown
(and less than eight after he had been smothered with a pillow by
the man who had engineered his downfall - Lieutenant-Colonel
Mengistu Haile Mariam). Mistrust, hatred and rank fear could
also be detected everywhere: people remembered bitterly the
period in the late 1970s when Mengistu’s forces had unleashed
the ‘Red Terror’ against those seeking to restore the monarchy.

State-sponsored death squads had roamed the streets rooting
out suspects from their homes and executing them on the spot.

The families of the victims of these purges had then had to
reimburse the cost of the bullets used to kill their relatives before
they were allowed to claim back the bodies for burial.
It was in the emotional climate fostered by such atrocities that I
was obliged to conduct my preliminary research into a subject
that had explicit connections with Ethiopia’s last emperor and
with the Solomonic dynasty to which he had belonged. Just how
close these connections in fact were was made clear to me when a
friend passed me a samizdat copy of a document prepared at the
peak of Haile Selassie’s power and popularity - the 1955
Revised Constitution. Implemented with the intent of encouraging ‘the modern Ethiopian to accustom himself to take part in the
direction of all departments of State’ and ‘to share in the mighty
task which Ethiopian Sovereigns have had to accomplish alone in
the past’, this remarkable piece of legislation nevertheless

24

Legend

contained the following unequivocal confirmation of the age-old
monarchy’s Divine Right to rule:

The Imperial dignity shall remain perpetually attached to
the line of Haile Selassie I, whose line descends without
interruption from the dynasty of Menelik I, son of the

Queen of Ethiopia, the Queen of Sheba, and King
By virtue of His Imperial
Solomon of Jerusalem
.

.

.

Blood, as well as by the anointing which He has received,
the person of the Emperor is sacred, His Dignity
inviolable and His Power indisputable

I

1
.

quickly established that Zelelew, our guide in Axum, had been

correct about at least one of the things that he had told us: the

Emperor had claimed to be the two hundred and twenty-fifth
direct-line descendant of Menelik. Furthermore, very few of the

Ethiopians to whom I talked in Addis Ababa - even the most
revolutionary amongst

them -

seriously doubted the sacral

pedigree of the Solomonic dynasty. Indeed, it was whispered that
President Mengistu himself had plucked the ring of Solomon

from Haile Selassie’s dead hand and now wore it on his own
middle finger - as though, by this device, he could appropriate
some of the tharisma and supposed magical powers of his
predecessor.

Such whispers and rumours were interesting enough. They
did not, however, satisfy my desire for hard information about the

Ark of the Covenant and about its mystical associations with the
deposed ‘line of Haile Selassie I’. The problem was that most of
my Ethiopian contacts were too terrified to tell me what they
knew and shut up like clams whenever I mentioned the Ark, the
former emperor, or indeed anything to do with the prerevolutionary period that might possibly be interpreted as
seditious.

I

therefore only managed to make progress when a

knowledgeable colleague arrived in Addis Ababa from England Professor Richard Pankhurst, whom I had invited to join me as
co-author in the book that I was preparing for the government.
Grandson of the famous English suffragette Emmeline
Pankhurst, and the son of Sylvia Pankhurst - who had fought
heroically alongside the Abyssinian resistance during the Italian

Disenchantment

25

occupation in the 1930s - Richard was, and remains, the leading
historian of Ethiopia. In the time of Emperor Haile Selassie he

had founded the scholarly and well respected Institute of
Ethiopian Studies at Addis Ababa University. Shortly after the
revolution in 1974 he had left the country with his family, but was
now anxious to get reinvolved; our book project, therefore, suited
his own requirements well and he had taken a few days off from
his work at the Royal Asiatic Society in London in order to
discuss our collaboration on the text.
A tall but rather stooped man in his late fifties, he had a
diffident, almost apologetic manner which - as I had discovered
some time previously - disguised great self-confidence and a
wicked sense of humour. His knowledge of Ethiopian history was
comprehensive and one of the first matters I discussed with him
was the Ark of the Covenant and the seemingly far-fetched claim
that it might now rest in Axum. Did he think there could be any
factual basis at all to this tradition?

He replied that the story of Solomon and Sheba that I had
heard in the sacred city had an ancient pedigree in Ethiopia.
There were many versions of it, both oral and written. Amongst
the latter the oldest still surviving was contained in a thirteenthcentury manuscript known as the Kebra Nagast - which was
greatly revered and which most Ethiopians believed to tell ‘the
truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth’. As a historian,

however, he could not accept this - particularly since the
homeland of the Queen of Sheba had almost certainly been
located in Arabia and not in Ethiopia at all. Nevertheless he could
not entirely dismiss the possibility that the legend might contain
‘some scintilla of veracity’. There had been well documented
contacts between Ethiopia and Jerusalem in antiquity (though
not as far back as the time of Solomon) and there could be no
doubt that Ethiopian culture did contain a strong ‘flavour’ of
Judaism. This was best illustrated by the presence in the country
of a group of indigenous Jews - known as the Falashas - who
lived in the Simien mountains to the south of Axum and around
the shores of Lake Tana. There were also certain widespread

customs (many of which Abyssinian Christians shared with their
Falasha neighbours) which provided at least circumstantial
evidence of early ties with Judaic civilization. These customs

Legend

26

included circumcision, the following of food proscriptions very
close to those outlined in the book of Leviticus, and the practice

adhered to in isolated rural communities) of celebrating the
Sabbath on Saturdays rather than on Sundays.
I was already aware of the existence of the Falashas and had
requested (but not yet been granted) official permission to visit
and photograph at least one of their villages on our next field trip
- which would take us to Lake Tana and thence northwards to
the city of Gondar and hopefully also to the Simien mountains. I
knew next to nothing about the so-called ‘Black Jews of
Ethiopia’, however, and asked Richard to tell me more about
them.
He replied that in physical appearance and in dress they were
quite indistinguishable from other Abyssinian highlanders.
Their mother tongue, too, was indigenous, being a dialect of the
Agaw language which - although now rapidly being replaced by
Amharic, the national lingua franca - had once been spoken
extensively in the northern provinces. In short, the only really
unique quality that the Falashas possessed was their religion which was undoubtedly Jewish, though of a very archaic and
idiosyncratic kind. Their adherence to ancient customs, long
abandoned elsewhere, had led a number of romantic and
excitable visitors to proclaim them as ‘the lost tribe of Israel’. And
in the last decade this notion had received the official blessing of
the Ashkenazi and Sephardi Chief Rabbis in Jerusalem who had
defined the Falashas unequivocally as Jews - a status that
rendered them eligible for Israeli citizenship under the terms of
(still

the Law of Return.

But, I asked, where had the Falashas come from in the first
place? And how exactly had they been marooned in the middle of

Ethiopia nearly two thousand miles from Israel?

Richard admitted that there were no easy answers to these
questions. The view accepted by most scholars was that a
number of Jews had migrated to the Abyssinian mainland from
south-western Arabia in the first and second centuries ad and
had subsequently converted some sections of the local population to their faith; the Falashas were therefore seen as the
descendants of these converts. It was true, he added, that an
important Jewish community had established itself in the Yemen

11

Disenchantment

27

following persecution by the Roman occupiers of Palestine in the

ad - so it was theoretically possible that missionaries
and traders had crossed the narrow Red Sea straits of Bab-elMandeb and entered Ethiopia. Nevertheless he knew of no
first century

historical evidence which confirmed that this was really what had

happened.

And what did the Falashas themselves say?
Richard smiled: ‘That they are descended from King
Solomon of course
Their legend is basically the same as the
Christian one but a bit more elaborate. If I remember correctly,
.

.

.

they claim that Solomon not only made the

Queen of Sheba

pregnant but also her maidservant - thus fathering not only
Menelik but also a half-brother who founded a dynasty of
Falasha
kings. All the rest of the Jews in Ethiopia today are supposed to be
the descendants of the bodyguard made up of the first-born sons
of the elders of Israel who accompanied Menelik with the Ark of
the Covenant.’
‘And do you think there’s any possibility that what they say
might be true - mean that the Ark could really have been stolen
from Solomon’s Temple in Jerusalem and brought to Axum?’
Richard made a wry face: ‘Frankly no. No possibility at all. As a
matter of fact Axum didn’t even exist in the period when this is
Look,
supposed to have happened. It simply wasn’t there
Solomon died - don’t know exactly when but it must have been
around the 940s or 930s bc. If Menelik was his son then it would
have had to have been around those dates - maybe even ten or
fifteen years earlier - that he brought the Ark to Axum. But
there’s absolutely no way that he could have done that. You see,
Axum wasn’t founded until at least the third century bc, perhaps
not even until the second century bc - in other words about seven
or eight hundred years after the supposed theft of the Ark.’
‘Well,’ I said, ‘that rather puts paid to the whole story doesn’t
.

.

.

it?’

‘Yes - although I expect it’s just feasible that the Ark could

have been brought to some other place in Ethiopia which later got
mixed up with Axum in the traditions that have been handed
down. There are, however, many other fallacies, anachronisms

and inaccuracies in the legend - which is why no historian or
archaeologist worth his salt has ever been prepared to spend time

28

Legend

investigating

it

.

.

.

Nevertheless not

all

the things that the

Falashas say about themselves are complete fantasies and some
aspects of their origins would merit further research/

‘What, for example?’

‘The claim I mentioned that there was once a dynasty of Jewish
kings in Ethiopia ... If we go back to say the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries ad we find quite a lot of evidence to support that view -

and it’s probable that they had a monarchic system long before then
as well. In fact, by all accounts, the Jews were once a force to be
reckoned with in this country: sometimes they even fought
successful wars with the Christian rulers in order to preserve their
independence. But over the years they gradually weakened and
began to disappear. We know that their numbers were greatly
reduced between the fifteenth and eighteenth centuries. And
unfortunately they’ve continued to be in steady decline ever since.
There are probably no more than twenty thousand of them left now
- and most of them are trying to get to Israel.’
Richard and I worked together in Addis for the next three days
- during which time I benefited enormously from the detailed
briefings that he gave me about Ethiopian culture and history.
Then he returned to London and Carol, Duncan and I embarked
on the field trip that would take us to Lake Tana, Gondar and the
Simiens.

Tabots: replicas of the Ark
Driving out of Addis Ababa in the battered Toyota Landcruiser
that the

government had provided to facilitate our work we

climbed the immense eucalyptus-covered shoulder of Mount
Entoto and then travelled in a north-westerly direction for many
miles across high, bleak moorlands.
At Debra Libanos (the name means ‘Mount Lebanon’), we
paused to photograph a sixteenth-century church where
thousands of pilgrims had congregated to celebrate the life and
miracles of Tekla Haimanot, a famous Ethiopian saint. We saw
normally shy and conservative men and women casting off all
their clothes to bathe naked in a spring of holy water. Possessed
by the demanding spirit of their own religious fervour, they

seemed enraptured, entranced, lost to the world.

Disenchantment

29

Further north still we crossed the spectacular Blue Nile
gorge before finally arriving at Bahar Dar, a small town at the
southern tip of Lake Tana, Ethiopia’s mighty inland sea. Here

we

spent several days puttering about on the reed-fringed

waters in a large diesel-engined launch provided to us by the

Maritime Authority. We visited some of the twenty monasteries
on the lake’s numerous islands and photographed their wonof old illuminated manuscripts, religious
paintings and murals.
derful

collections

Because

of their

literal

‘isolation’,

we

learned,

these

monasteries had frequendy been used during times of trouble as
places of safety for art treasures and for sacred relics from all

main purpose, however, was to
provide their inmates with peace and solitude. One monk told me
that he had not left his tiny, wooded island for twenty-five years
and had no intention of ever doing so. ‘By cutting myself off like
this,’ he said, ‘I get real happiness. All my days I have been loyal
to God and will remain so until I die. I have separated myself
from the life of the world. I am free from its distractions.’
Every monastic community had its own church - and these
buildings, usually circular in plan rather than rectangular, were
often very old. Typically they would have an outer walkway, open
at the sides but covered by the projecting thatch of the roof, then
parts of the country. Their

an

inner

circuit

(the

k’ane

mahlet)

decorated with

richly

paintings, then a second circuit (the keddest

,

used for com-

munion) which in turn surrounded a walled central enclosure
(the tnak’das) containing the Holy of Holies.
I had been in many Ethiopian churches before, but those on
Lake Tana were the first in which I began to get some idea of the
significance of the Holy of Holies. I discovered that each of these
inner sanctums - which only the most senior priests could enter
- contained an object regarded as being immensely sacred.
Speaking through our government interpreter at the fourteenthcentury monastery of Kebran Gabriel, I asked what this sacred
object was.
‘It is

the tabot ,’ replied my informant, ninety-year-old Abba

Haile Mariam.

The word sounded familiar and, after a moment’s reflection, I
remembered that I had heard it in Axum when I had sat in the

30

Legend

grounds of the sanctuary chapel talking to the guardian monk: it
was the Ethiopian name for the Ark of the Covenant.
‘What does he mean by tabotV I asked our interpreter. ‘Does
he mean the Ark of the Covenant? We were just in Axum a couple
.’
I
of weeks ago and we were told that the Ark was there
paused, genuinely puzzled, then concluded rather lamely: ‘I
don’t see how it can be here as well.’
A lengthy discussion followed, into which several of the other
monks were drawn. For a while I despaired of ever learning
anything of substance from these people who - quiet and
withdrawn until a moment before - were now garrulous,
animated and argumentative. Eventually, however, with further
probing from me and much clarification by the interpreter, a
clear picture began to emerge.
Every Orthodox church in Ethiopia, it seemed, had its own
Holy of Holies, and in every Holy of Holies was a tabot. No claim
was made that any of these objects were actually the Ark of the
Covenant. There was only one true Ark and that, properly known
as Tabota Zion had indeed been brought by Menelik to Ethiopia
in the time of Solomon and now stood in the sanctuary chapel in
Axum. All the others throughout the length and breadth of the
land were merely replicas of that sacred and inviolable original.
These replicas, however, were important. Indeed they were
supremely important. Symbolic on several levels, it appeared
from what I was told that they fully embodied the intangible
.

.

,

As Abba Haile Mariam painstakingly
explained to me during our interview at Kebran Gabriel: ‘It is the

notion

of sanctity.

tabots , rather

than the churches that they stand

in,

that are

consecrated; without a tabot at its heart, in its Holy of Holies, a

church is just an empty husk - a dead building of no greater or
lesser significance than any other.’

The black Jews of Ethiopia

When our work at the island monasteries was complete we
returned to Bahar Dar and then drove north, around the curving
eastern shore of Lake Tana, to the city of Gondar - founded in
the seventeenth century by Fasilidas, the same emperor who had
rebuilt the church of Saint Mary of Zion at Axum. During the

1

Disenchantment

3

journey I had time to give further consideration to the tabot
tradition that I had just learned about.

At the very least, I remember thinking, it was intriguing and
odd that the Ethiopian Christians should ascribe so much
importance to the Ark of the Covenant that they felt the need to
place replicas of it in every single one of their churches. The
Ark, after all, was a pre-Christian relic and had absolutely
nothing to do with the teachings of Jesus. So what on earth was
going on here?
Inevitably I began to wonder again about the validity of the
Axumite claims concerning the Queen of Sheba, King Solomon
and their son Menelik. Perhaps, after all, there was some
substance to the legends. The presence of indigenous black Jews
in the country, whose origin seemed to be shrouded in mystery,

was also intriguing - and could, it seemed to me, quite possibly be
connected. I therefore found myself looking forward with
interest to visiting the Falasha settlements which I knew that we
would encounter with increasing frequency on the next stage of
our field trip.
Before leaving Gondar, however, we were warned by a senior

we should on no account try to interview or
photograph any Ethiopian Jews. Under the circumstances I was
official

that

extremely frustrated by this, and even more frustrated - and

annoyed - when our interpreter and official guide explained the
reason for the ban. With an absolutely straight face he told me:
‘This year the position of our government is that the Falashas
don’t exist. And if they don’t exist then obviously you can’t talk to
any of them or take their pictures ... It would be a contradiction.’
Less than ten minutes’ drive beyond the city limits, however, I
spotted a Star of David positioned on top of a hut in a small
village by the side of the road. ‘Come on, Balcha,’ I said to the
interpreter, ‘that’s a Falasha house isn’t it?’
Balcha was an intelligent, sensitive and highly educated man
who had spent several years in the United States. He was vastly
over-qualified for the government job he was now doing. He was
also quite obviously impatient with the more lunatic edicts of the

bureaucrats in Addis Ababa and, indeed, with official secrecy in
general. Although we had already left the Falasha village behind I

32

Legend

therefore made a determined effort to persuade him to let us turn

back.

He cast me a discomfited glance out of the comer of his eye:
‘Really it is very difficult.

We never know from one day to the next

Late last year I brought a
what line our bosses are going to take
they were interested in
Canadian film crew to that very village
the Jews and they had all the official permissions and everything.
Anyway, they poked around and asked a lot of leading questions
about religious freedom, political persecution and so on - all of
which I had to translate. Afterwards I was arrested by the security
police and locked up for a few weeks accused of facilitating antistate propaganda. Do you really want that to happen to me again?’
‘No, of course not. But Pm certain there won’t be any
problems. I mean we’re actually here workin gfor the government
and trying to produce a worthwhile book about the peoples and
.

.

.

.

.

.

cultures of this country. Surely that makes a big difference?’

‘Not necessarily. Last year, when I came with the film crew,
the Falashas officially existed - the government wasn’t denying
them - but I still ended up in jail. This year there are supposed to
be no Jews in Ethiopia, so I think if I take you to one of their
villages I will be in serious trouble.’
I had to admit that Balcha’s logic was faultless. As we drove on
through increasingly mountainous terrain, I asked him to explain
the official position - if he could.
Part of the problem, he replied, was that most of ‘the bosses’ in
Addis Ababa belonged to the dominant Amhara ethnic group.
The Falashas lived mainly in the provinces of Gondar and
Goj jam - which were both Amhara strongholds - and, as a result,
there was tension between the two peoples. In the past there had
been occasional massacres as well as sustained economic
persecution, and the Jews were still looked down upon and
despised by their Amhara neighbours today. Since the revolution
some efforts had been made to improve the situation, but
members of the ruling elite continued to suffer from a kind of
collective guilty conscience about the whole matter and did not
want any foreigners ‘sticking their noses in’. Moreover, since the
beginning of the 1980s, official paranoia had been greatly
heightened by the strong anti-government line taken by visiting
American and British Jews, who had openly and vociferously

Disenchantment

33

expressed concern about Falasha welfare. ‘This has been seen
as meddling in our internal affairs/ Balcha explained.

As we talked I learned that there were other more complex
considerations too. Instinctively lowering his voice - though our
driver spoke no English - Balcha pointed out that Addis Ababa
was the Headquarters of the Organization of African Unity and
that Ethiopia

had joined other African

states in

ending

its

diplomatic relationship with Israel after the last Arab-Israeli war.

The fact was, however, that clandestine links did still continue
between the two countries: indeed the Israelis were providing a
certain amount of military assistance to the regime. In return for
this help, some hundreds of Falashas had quietly been permitted

to emigrate every year to Israel. The problem was, however, that

thousands more had fled illegally by trekking across the border
into refugee camps in the Sudan - from whence, they hoped, they
might eventually be airlifted to Tel Aviv.
As a result of all this, the entire issue had now become very
sensitive. On the one hand the government feared that its covert
guns-for-people deal with the Israelis might at any moment be
exposed, thus causing maximum embarrassment within the
OAU. On the other hand there was real resentment at the fact
that large numbers of Ethiopian citizens were being lured into
refugee camps in a neighbouring and not entirely friendly
country. This, Balcha said, made ‘the big-shots in Addis’ look as
though they were no longer fully in control - which was true but
not something that they wanted to publicize.

During the next three days I had little time to give further
consideration to the Falasha question. Our journey had brought
us into the heart of the Simien mountains - an Afro-Alpine
wilderness, all of which lay at more than six thousand feet above
sea level, much at nine thousand feet or more, and a not
insignificant portion at thirteen thousand feet plus. The giant of

the range, the snow-capped peak of Mount Ras Dashen, soared

up to fourteen thousand nine hundred and ten feet - making it
the highest point in Ethiopia and the fourth highest in the whole
continent of Africa.

At an altitude of ten thousand feet, the camp that we had
established as the base for our photography and research was
freezing cold at night - so cold that we had to keep a huge fire

Legend

34

stoked and burning. In the mornings, however, as the dawn mists

evaporated beneath the rising sun, warmth filled the air and
astonishing views unfolded in

all

directions over a surreal

landscape which ancient seismic activity, followed by millions of
years of erosion, had left folded and fissured, cut through with
steep valleys, and dominated by isolated, jutting crags.

Our treks frequently took us up above twelve thousand feet on
to remote, unpopulated heaths. At lower altitudes, however, we
saw frequent signs of human habitation: grassy meadows that
provided grazing for sheep, goats and cattle, and terraced
hillsides divided into allotments and planted with cereals.
Viewing these tidy smallholdings, I had the sense of a very old,
long-established pattern of agricultural life and of a peasant
culture that probably had experienced no significant change in
the past century - nor even in the past millennium.

There were a few Falasha communities - which, at Balcha’s
insistence, we rigorously avoided. The majority of the popula-

however, were Amharas who lived not in villages but in
small hamlets - usually of six houses or less - that tended to be

tion,

inhabited by single extended families. Typically their homes

were circular structures with walls made of wattle -and -daub or
sometimes of stone, and with conical thatched roofs supported by

wooden poles rising through the centre.
The peasant whom we met and talked to were poor, in some
cases very poor indeed, and their lives were clearly ruled by the
iron rods of soil and season. Nevertheless they were

also

dignified and proud and this, Balcha told us, was because they

- with good reason - that they belonged to a ‘master race'.
Over an astonishing period of more than seven hundred years,
from ad 1270 until the overthrow of Emperor Haile Selassie in
felt

1974, all but one of the rulers of Ethiopia had been Amharas. It
was their mother-tongue, furthermore - Amharic - that had

been adopted as the country’s official language.
Inevitably, therefore, Amhara culture - expressed through an
almost universal dedication to the Christian faith - had had an

enormous impact. In the past few centuries, whole tribes and
peoples had become ‘Amharized’, and this process was still
continuing in many different parts of Ethiopia. In such a context,

Balcha concluded, it was little short of a miracle that subject

Disenchantment

35

groups like the Falashas had managed to survive at all, let alone
maintain their own distinct identity.
A maverick at heart, Balcha (who some years later defected to
the United States) surprised us on our journey back to Gondar by
ordering our driver to stop at the same F alasha village that we had
seen on our way out. ‘Go on,’ he said, Til give you ten minutes.’
He then folded his arms and pretended to fall asleep.

From the moment we climbed down from the Landcruiser we
were besieged by women and children all shouting Shalom
4

,

Shalom - which, it quickly transpired, was just about the only
word of Hebrew that they knew. With Balcha steadfastly refusing
to interpret for us, we at first had some difficulty in communicating; soon, however, we found a young man who spoke some
English and, in exchange for a small sum of money, he agreed to
’

show us around.
There was not much to see. Sprawled up a slope at the side of
the road, the village - it was called Weleka - was dirty and
seething with flies. Many of the people who pressed around us

seemed to think that we ourselves must be Jewish and that we had
come to take them away to Israel. Others ran towards us with
armloads of souvenirs - for the most part baked clay representations of the Star of David and of the supposed bed-time scene

between Solomon and Sheba. The plaintive earnestness with
which these items were touted touched me and I asked our guide
how long it had been since there had been any foreigners here to
buy their goods. ‘Not since year before,’ he replied.
In the short time we had at our disposal we photographed what
we could. Here a loom stood positioned for a weaver above a hole
in the ground; there pieces of iron lay scattered around a fire, in
the flickering flames of which a blacksmith was forging an axehead; in one hut clay was being baked; in another we found a
woman at work fashioning pottery. The Amharas, Balcha told us
later, despised such lowly trades - indeed, in their language, the
word for ‘manual worker’ (tabib) had the same meaning as ‘one
with the evil eye’.

By the time we left Weleka I felt thoroughly jaded. Partly
prompted by what Richard Pankhurst had told me about the
medieval history of the Falashas, and partly because I was
intrigued by the possible connection of this people to the Ark of

36

Legend

Covenant story that I had heard in Axum, I had built up
some rather unrealistic and extravagant expectations. A
romantic at heart, I had nurtured dreams of encountering a
noble and ancient Judaic civilization. The reality, however,
seemed to be a degraded and impoverished peasant culture
overanxious to pander to the enthusiasms of foreigners. Even
the place of worship, which the Falashas called a mesgid turned
out to be filled with chintzy gifts from Israel: boxes of matsos
were stacked in one corner and nobody could read the Torah which had been printed in Tel Aviv - because it was written in
Hebrew.
Just before we drove away I bought one of the miniature
sculptures of Solomon and Sheba in bed together. I have it still.
At the time I remember thinking that its cheap workmanship and
the

,

sentimental imagery appropriately symbolized the deficiencies of
the legend itself. Disappointed and disenchanted I glowered out

of the window of the Landcruiser as we motored back into

Gondar.

Coup de grace
By the end of 1983 I had entirely lost interest in the Axumite
claim to the Ark of the Covenant. The coup de grace, however, was
not delivered by the tawdry Falasha village but by what I saw

when I followed up the one issue still outstanding after the
completion of our field work - the question of the tabots, the
which were lodged in every Ethiopian
Christian church. This custom had struck me as being of
possible relevance and I wanted to find out more about it.
I raised the matter in the late autumn of 1983 on a visit that I
made to Richard Pankhurst’s home in London’s elegant
Hampstead district. Over tea and biscuits the historian confirmed that tabots were indeed supposed to be replicas of the Ark
and added: ‘It’s a most curious tradition. As far as Pm aware
there’s no precedent for it in any other brand of Christianity.’
I asked if he knew how long tabots had been in use in Ethiopia.
He replied that he honestly had no idea. ‘The first historical
mention was probably made by Father Francisco Alvarez who
visited the north of the country in the sixteenth century. But it’s
replicas of the Ark,

Disenchantment

37

clear that he was witnessing a tradition that was already very old
at that time.

5

Richard then pulled down from his bookshelf a slim volume,
printed in 1970, entitled The Ethiopian Orthodox Church. ‘This is
an official church publication,’ he said, ‘let’s have a look and see if
it offers any enlightenment on the subject.’
There was no index, but we checked first in a chapter entitled
‘The Consecration of a Church’. Here I read:

The consecration of a church is a solemn and impressive
ceremony with rites symbolic of the sacred uses to which
the edifice is dedicated. The various parts of the service
are of very ancient date

.

.

.

The Tabot or Ark, previously
,

consecrated by the Patriarch, is installed with grandeur

and is the chief feature of the ceremony.

In another chapter, ‘Church Buildings’,

passage:

‘It is

2

I

came

across this

the Tabot which gives sanctity to the church in

which it is placed.’ 3 Finally, in the glossary, I found the word tabot
defined simply as ‘Ark of the Covenant’. 4

asked Richard if he had any idea what tabots looked like.
‘The Bible says that the original Ark of the Covenant was a wood
and gold box about the size of a tea-chest. Do the tabots fit that
I next

description?’

‘Well, no, I’m afraid they don’t. Of course lay people aren’t

supposed to see them at all. Even when they’re brought out in
procession they’re always covered in cloth wrappings. But they’re
certainly much smaller than the biblical description.

We needn’t

speculate on this though. You can go and see some tabots for

yourself at the British Museum. They were looted from Ethiopia

during the Napier Expedition to Magdala in the nineteenth
century and brought back to England. I don’t think they’re on
public display any more, but you’ll find them in the Ethnographic
Store in Hackney.’

The next morning, after I had made a few phone calls, I drove
over to Orsman Road, London ni, where the Ethnographic
Store was located. It was a modern and fundamentally unattractive building with quite a high level of security: ‘People

Legend

38

sometimes try to break in here and nick our stuff/ explained the
caretaker as I signed in.

He took me in a lift to one of the upper floors and then into an
enormous warehouse of a room completely filled with rows of
metal filing racks. These extended from floor to ceiling and were
only by narrow walkways badly

by overhead
fluorescent tubes. The caretaker now consulted a voluminous
separated

lit

index, muttering incomprehensibly to himself as he did so.

think it’s this way/ he said finally. ‘Follow me.

‘I

5

As we walked I was reminded irresistibly of the closing scene
in Raiders of the Lost Ark - the scene in which the sacred relic is
sealed in a wooden crate and dumped in a federal depository
amidst thousands of other anonymous containers. This parallel
continued when, after quite a few false turns in the maze of
shelves, we finally arrived at the right spot. Here, with a certain

amount of ceremony, the caretaker pulled out ... a large box.
I felt a thrill of excitement as he opened it up. Inside, however,
there was nothing that bore even the remotest resemblance to my
image of the Ark of the Covenant. Separated by sheets of crepe
paper there were, instead, nine wooden slabs, some square, some
rectangular, none exceeding eighteen inches in length and width,
and none more than three inches thick. The majority were very
plain but all bore writing which I recognized as Ge 'ez, the ancient
liturgical language of Ethiopia.

A few were additionally engraved

with crosses and other devices.
I

asked the caretaker to check his index. Could he possibly

have made a mistake? Could we be looking at the wrong things?

He squinted at the list in his hands, then replied: ‘No. No
mistake.

These

are your tabots

all

right.

From the Holmes

collection. Brought back by the British Expedition to Abyssinia in

1867/8. That’s what it says here.’
I thanked him for his trouble and left, satisfied that I had

whole matter to rest. These pathetic lumps of
wood were supposed to be replicas of the sacred relic in the
sanctuary chapel at Axum. Whatever that relic might be,
therefore, one thing was now absolutely clear: it was not the Ark
of the Covenant.
‘So that’s the end of that,’ I remember thinking as I stepped
finally laid the

Disenchantment

39

out on to Orsman Road and ran to my car through a dismal

shower of rain.
I

could not have been more wrong.

Part II: Europe, 1989

Holy Ark
and Holv Grail

Chapter 3

The Grail Cipher

was in 1983 that I visited Axum and learned at first hand about
Ethiopia’s audacious claim to be the last resting place of the Ark
of the Covenant. I had been living in Africa at the time. In 1984 1
moved to England with my family. Nevertheless in the years that
followed I continued to travel regularly to Addis Ababa,
producing a number of publications for the government and
generally strengthening my contacts with those in power including President Mengistu Haile Mariam himself. The
dictator had a bad reputation for abusing human rights but I
cultivated him assiduously and won a number of useful privileges
as a result - notably access to many areas that were normally
closed to foreigners. If I had wanted to look further into the Ark
mystery there is no doubt that I would have been strongly placed
to do so. I was just not interested, however. I therefore did not
feel even a twinge of regret when, at the end of 1 988, the forces of
It

Tigray People’s Liberation Front launched a massive
offensive against Axum and captured it in a single day of bloody
hand-to-hand fighting - during which more than two thousand
the

of the governments troops were killed or captured. At that stage
my involvement with the Mengistu regime had become so close
that the rebels’ success meant the doors of the sacred city were

now effectively closed to me. But I had no particular reason to
want to go back there anyway. Or at least so I thought.

The Queen of Sheba at Chartres
spent most of the second half of 1988 and the first quarter of
1989 writing the accompanying commentary for an illustrated

I

44

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
%

book focussing on the historic northern regions of Ethiopia and
on the religious ceremonies and customs of the peoples living
there. This project was not commissioned by the government but
was the work of two internationally renowned photographers,
Angela Fisher and Carol Beckwith - both of whom were close
1

friends of mine.

Because of the nature of the subject, I had to do some quite
detailed background research into several different ethnic
groups -- amongst them the Falashas, the indigenous black Jews
of the Ethiopian highlands whom I had first encountered in
1983. At the same time, because of its formative role in
Abyssinian religious culture, I found it necessary to read an
ancient text to which Professor Richard Pankhurst had long
before drawn my attention. Called the Kebra Nagast (‘Glory of
Kings’) this text dated from the thirteenth century ad and had
originally been written in Ge’ez. It contained the earliestsurviving version of the story told to

me in Axum about the

Queen of Sheba and King Solomon, the birth of their son
Menelik, and the eventual abduction of the Ark of the Covenant
from the First Temple in Jerusalem. An English translation had
been made in the 1920s by Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, formerly
Keeper of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities at the British
Museum. It was out of print, but I managed to obtain a photocopy

which I studied closely and drew on at various stages in the book I
was writing.
My manuscript was not finalized until the end of March 1989.
In April, wanting a complete break, I went on holiday to France
with my family. We hired a car in Paris and then, with no
particular itinerary in mind, headed south. Our first stop was
Versailles where we spent a couple of days looking at the palace
and at the chateaux. Then we went on to Chartres, a lovely old
town in the departement of Eure -et- Loire that is famous for its
Gothic cathedral - a cathedral dedicated, like the great church at

Axum, to Saint Mary the Mother of Christ.
Chartres has been an important Christian site since at least the
sixth century ad and a focal point for the cult of the Madonna

since the ninth century when Charles the Bald, grandson of the

famous Charlemagne, presented the town with its most precious
religious relic - a veil said to have been worn by Mary when she

The Grail Cipher

45

gave birth to Jesus. In the eleventh century the church built by

Charles the Bald was burnt down and a new, much enlarged,
cathedral was erected on its foundations. Following classical,

‘Romanesque’ design principles that emphasized horizontal
solidity, this cathedral, too, was badly damaged by fire. Subsequently, during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, its surviving
shell was extensively modified and enlarged in the new, soaring,
upward -striving style that came to be known as ‘Gothic’. Indeed
the high north tower of Chartres cathedral, completed in the year
1134, is thought to be the world’s earliest example of Gothic
2
architecture. The south tower was added over the next two
decades, as were further features such as the west-facing Royal
Portal. Then, in a concentrated burst of building between 1194
and 1225 most of the rest of the superb Gothic exterior was put
in place - remaining intact and virtually unaltered ever since. 3
When I visited Chartres with my family in April 1989 I was
initially

much less interested in the history of the cathedral than

was such a vast
construction, with so much complex sculpture around its walls,
that I realized it might take a lifetime to get to know it properly.
We had other things to do and see, however, and decided to stay
in the town for just three days before moving on towards the
in

its

spectacular and glorious beauty.

It

south.

spent the greater part of those three days walking slowly
around the cathedral, gradually imbibing its powerful and
I

numinous atmosphere - the remarkable stained glass windows
telling biblical stories and illuminating the inner gloom with
strange patterns of light, the enigmatic labyrinth mapped out

with paving stones in the centre of the nave, the flying buttresses
supporting the soaring walls, the pointed arches, and the

overwhelming sensation of harmony and proportion conveyed by
the grace and agility of the architecture.
Guidebooks that I had purchased stressed that nothing was
accidental here. The entire edifice had been carefully and
explicitly designed as a key to the deeper religious mysteries.
Thus, for example, the architects and masons had made use of
gematria (an ancient Hebrew cipher that substitutes numbers for
the letters of the alphabet) to ‘spell out’ obscure liturgical phrases
in many of the key dimensions of the great building.

4

Similarly

46

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

the sculptors and glaziers - working usually to the instructions of

the higher clergy - had carefully concealed complex messages

about human nature, about the past, and about the prophetic
meaning of the Scriptures in the thousands of different devices

and designs that they had created. The statues and windows were
in themselves works of art and beauty that were capable, at the
most superficial level of understanding, of providing satisfaction,
moral guidance and even entertainment to the viewer. The
challenge, however, was to delve deeper and to decode the
information concealed beneath the more obvious surface interpretations of this or that set of sculptures, this or that arrange-

ment of stained glass. 5
I was initially rather unconvinced by arguments like these and
found it hard to accept that there could be anything more to the
building than its outward appearance. Gradually, however, as I

explored further and joined several specialist tours, I began to see
that the vast structure was indeed a kind of ‘book in stone’ - an

and provocative opus that could be approached and
understood at several different levels.
Soon enough, therefore, I too started to play the game - and
several times entertained myself by trying to work out the deeper
intricate

significance of various pieces of statuary that caught my eye.

When I thought I had found the correct answer to a particular
arrangement or tableau I would then check in the guidebooks to
see whether I was right or not.
Then something unexpected happened. Opposite the
cathedral’s south porch I stopped for a snack in a cafe called La
Reine de Saba. My recent reading of the Kebra Nagast containing
the Ethiopian legend of the Queen of Sheba was still fresh in my
mind and I asked one of the waiters why this name had been
chosen.

‘Because there is a sculpture of the Queen of Sheba in the

porch over there,’ he explained.

My curiosity aroused,

1

crossed the road and climbed the

seventeen steps to the ornate porch - which consisted of a wide
central archway sandwiched between two slightly narrower bays.

Here, on almost every available square inch of masonry, were
hundreds and hundreds of statuettes and many full-size statues. I
could find none, however, that seemed obviously to represent the

The Grail Cipher

47

Queen of Sheba. I therefore checked in the guidebooks I had
with me, the most detailed of which, Chartres: Guide of the
Cathedral told me where to look:
,

The inner archivolt of the outer arch has twenty-eight
statuettes of kings and queens of the Old Testament: we
recognise David with his harp, Solomon with a sceptre,

and the Queen of Sheba holding a flower in her left hand.
At the top, the four major prophets, bearded, talk with
6
four minor prophets who are clean shaven.

The book also informed me that the whole of the south porch had
been built in the first quarter of the thirteenth century - the same
century in which the Kebra Nagast had been compiled in Ethiopia
to tell the story of the Queen of Sheba, Menelik and the theft of
the Ark.

This struck me as an amusing coincidence and I therefore
examined the statuette of the Queen of Sheba with some
considerable interest.

I

could see absolutely nothing about

it,

however, that made it special in any way - other than the fact that it

seemed to be a little out of place in the august company of a large
number ofJewish monarchs and prophets. I knew that according to
the Kebra Nagast the queen had been converted to Judaism, 7 but I
also knew that the relatively short biblical account of her visit to

Jerusalem made no mention of this. In Chapter 10 of the book of
Kings and in Chapter 9 of the book of Chronicles - the only places

where she was specifically named in the Scriptures - she arrived at
8
Solomon’s court a heathen and apparently left there a heathen still.
It was her paganism, therefore, that made her the odd one out
unless, of course, the builders of Chartres cathedral had been
familiar with the Ethiopian story of her conversion. This, however,

seemed most unlikely - indeed the Old Testament did not even hint
that she might have come from Ethiopia at all and the majority of
scholars believed her to have been a South Arabian monarch who
had hailed quite specifically from Saba or Sabaea in what is now the
Yemen. 9
I might very well have left the matter there, as a minor
anomaly amongst the sculptures in the south porch of Chartres
cathedral, if I had not discovered, by reading further in my

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

48

guidebook, that there was a second statue of the Queen of Sheba
in the north porch. That porch, too, had been built between the
years 1200 and 1225, and was devoted to an extensive portrayal

of Old Testament themes.

10

The Ark and the inscriptions
I

suppose, on that first visit, that I spent two hours in the north

porch trying to puzzle out the convoluted stories told by the
sculptures.

The left bay contained several representations of the Virgin
Mary and of the infant Christ together with Old Testament
prophets like Isaiah and Daniel. There were also moral tales notably one which portrayed the triumph of the Virtues over the
Vices, and another which depicted the beatitudes of the body and

soul as described by the great twelfth-century cleric Saint

Bernard of Clairvaux.
The central bay was dominated by a group of Old Testament
patriarchs and prophets, notably the figure of Melchizedek - the
mysterious priest-king of Salem described in Chapter 14 of the
11
book of Genesis and in Psalm no. Abraham, Moses, Samuel
and David were there also, as were Elisha and Saint Peter. Other
scenes included the Garden of Eden, with its four rivers, and the
Virgin Mary crowned and seated on the heavenly throne beside
Jesus.

was in the right bay that I found the Queen of Sheba. This
time she was not an obscure statuette on the arch, as had been the
case in the south porch, but rather a full-size statue. She was
placed next to a figure of Solomon, which made sense given the
biblical context. What immediately caught my eye, however, was
that beneath her feet crouched an African - described in one of
my guidebooks as ‘her negroid servant’, 12 and in another as ‘her
It

Ethiopian slave’.

13

No further details were given. Nevertheless I had seen enough
to be satisfied that the sculptors who had worked in the north

porch of Chartres in the thirteenth century had wanted to place
the queen unmistakably in an African context. This meant that I
could no longer so easily dismiss the possibility that those
sculptors might have been familiar with the Ethiopian traditions

The Grail Cipher

49

about her which, in the thirteenth century, had been set down in
the Kebra Nagast. That, at least, would explain why an apparently

pagan monarch had been given so much importance in the
iconography of a Christian cathedral: as noted above, it had only
been in the Kebra Nagast and not in the Bible, that she had been
described as a convert to the true faith of the patriarchs. At the
same time, however, it raised another difficult question: how and
by what means could the Ethiopian story have filtered into
northern France at so early a date?
It was with such thoughts passing through my mind that, on a
column between the central and right-hand bays, I came across a
piece of sculpture that was to have an even more powerful impact
on me. Miniaturized - no more than a few inches high and wide
- it depicted a box or chest of some sort being transported on an
ox-cart. Beneath it, in capital letters, were carved these two
,

words:

ARCHA CEDERIS
Moving on around the column in an anti-clockwise direction I
then found a separate scene, badly damaged and eroded, which
seemed to show a man stooping over the same box or chest.
There was an inscription here, too, a little difficult to make out:

HIC AMICITUR ARCHA CEDERIS (or possibly HIC
AMITTITUR ARCHA CEDERIS, or HIC
AMITITUR ARCHA CEDERIS, or even HIC

AMIGITUR ARCHA CEDERIS).
The style of the lettering was archaic, jumbled up and obscure. I
form of Latin. However,
having been obliged by my schoolmasters to abandon that subject
realized that it must be Latin, or a

account of my own linguistic
incompetence), I made no attempt at a full translation. It seemed
at

the

age

of thirteen

(on

to me, however, that the word

ARCHA must mean ‘Ark’ - as in

Ark of the Covenant. I could also see that the box or chest
depicted in the sculptures was about the right size (scaled against
the other figures) to have been the Ark described in the book of
Exodus. 14

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

50

%

was correct in this assumption, I reasoned, then the
positioning of an image of the Ark within a very few feet of an
image of the Queen of Sheba strengthened the hypothesis that
If

I

the builders of Chartres might, in some as yet unexplained way,

have been influenced by the Ethiopian traditions set down in the
Kebra Nagast. Indeed the fact the sculptors had placed the queen
so unambiguously in an African context made this hypothesis
look much more plausible than it had seemed when it had first

occurred to me in the south porch. I therefore felt that it would be
worth my while to establish whether the miniaturized devices on
the columns were really images of the Ark and to work out the

meaning of the Latin inscriptions.
I sat down on the paving of the north porch and pored through
my guidebooks. Only two of them made any mention at all of the
decorations on the columns I was interested in. One offered no
translation of the inscriptions but confirmed that the scenes

depicted did indeed relate to the Ark of the Covenant.
other provided the

following translation

- which

15

I

The

found

interesting, but also rather suspect:

ARCHA CEDERIS ‘You are to work through the Ark.’
:

HIC AMITITUR ARCHA CEDERIS: ‘Here things take
their course; you are to work through the Ark.’

1

Even my schoolboy Latin was sufficient to suggest that these
interpretations were probably incorrect. I therefore decided that I
would have to refer the matter to an expert for clarification and it
occurred to me that in just a few days I would be passing quite close
to the home of a man well qualified to help - Professor Peter Lasko,
an art historian and a former director of the University of London’s
Courtauld Institute, who now spent six months of every year living
in southern France. The father of a close friend of mine, Lasko had
made a lifetime study of the sacred art and architecture of the
medieval period and could probably give me an authoritative
opinion - or at any rate point me in the right direction.
Accordingly I carefully copied out the inscriptions and then
stood up to try to produce a sketch of the whole north porch. As I
was doing so I noticed something else that was possibly

The Grail Cipher

51

significant: the Ark tableau, though standing to the front of the

porch on the supporting columns, was positioned exacdy midway between Melchizedek, the Old Testament priest-king
whose statue dominated the central bay, and the statue of the
Queen of Sheba, which dominated the right-hand bay. Indeed I
found that I could draw a neat triangle connecting up all three
pieces of sculpture - with Melchizedek and the Queen of Sheba
at either end of the long base and the Ark of the Covenant at the
apex of the two shorter sides.
Nor was this all. As I studied the layout of images in the two
bays I realized that the Ark on its little cart had been depicted as
moving away from Melchizedek and directly towards the Queen
of Sheba - along the side of the triangle I had drawn. Given the
cryptic nature of much of the sculpture at Chartres, and the way
in which different figures were often deliberately juxtaposed in
order to tell stories and convey information, it seemed to me that
this particular arrangement was unlikely to have been accidental.

On the contrary it looked very much like another piece of
evidence to support my evolving hypothesis that the builders of

Chartres must, somehow, have been exposed to the Ethiopian

legend of the Queen of Sheba as related in the Kebra Nagast.
Though there was far too little to go on here to justify any firm
conclusions, it was at least possible that the curious iconography
of the north porch did contain echoes of the tradition that the Ark
of the Covenant had been taken away from ancient Israel
(represented by the priest-king Melchizedek) and to Ethiopia
(represented by the Queen of Sheba).
I therefore paid special attention to the statue of Melchizedek
before leaving the north porch. He had caught my eye when I had
first arrived, but now, as I sketched him, I began to notice more

Dangling beneath his right hand, for example, was a
censer very similar to those that I had often seen in use in
Ethiopian church services - where copious quantities of incense
were routinely burned. Meanwhile he held in his left hand a
long-stemmed chalice or cup containing not liquid but rather
details.

some sort of solid cylindrical object.
searched through my guidebooks again, but could find no
reference to the censer and only conflicting explanations of the
cup. One source said that Melchizedek was intended here to be
I

52

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

viewed as a precursor of Christ and that the chalice and the object
within it were thus meant to represent ‘the bread and the wine,
17
Another captioned its photothe symbols of the Eucharist’.
graph of the statue with these words: ‘Melchizedek bearing the
Grail cup out of which comes the Stone’, and then added
(somewhat puzzlingly):

With this we may connect the poem of Wolfram von
Eschenbach, who is said to have been a Templar though there is no proof of this - for whom the Grail is a
Stone.

18

None the wiser, I eventually left the north porch and joined my
wife and children in the gardens behind the great cathedral. The
next day we drove south from Chartres in the direction of
Bordeaux and Biarritz. And some time after that, now heading
east towards the Cote d’Azur, we arrived in the departement of
Tarn-et-Garonne near the city of Toulouse. There, with the aid
of a good map, I eventually found the home of the art historian
Professor Peter Lasko whom I had telephoned from Chartres
and who had expressed a willingness to talk to me about the
sculptures in the north porch - though, he had modestly added,
he could not claim to be an expert on them.

An Ethiopian connection?
an afternoon with Peter Lasko at his house in the village of
Montaigu de Quercy. A distinguished, grey-haired man in his
sixties, I had met him several times before and he knew that, as a
writer, I specialized in Ethiopia and the Horn of Africa. He
therefore began by asking me why I had suddenly taken an
interest in medieval French cathedrals.
I replied by outlining my theory that the sculptures I had seen
in the north porch of Chartres might in some way have been
influenced by the Kebra Nagast: ‘Melchizedek with his cup could
represent Old Testament Israel,’ I concluded. ‘He was priestking of Salem, after all, which a number of scholars have
19
identified with Jerusalem.
Then the Queen of Sheba with her
African servant could represent Ethiopia. And then we have the
I spent

The Grail Cipher

53

Ark between the two, going in the direction of Ethiopia. So the
message would be that the Ark had gone from Jerusalem to
Ethiopia - which is exacdy what the Kebra Nagast says. How does
that sound to you?’
‘To be perfectly honest, Graham, it sounds preposterous.’
‘Why?’
‘Well ... I suppose it’s just possible that Ethiopian traditions

could have filtered into Europe as early as the thirteenth century

- in fact, come to think of it, there has been at least one scholarly
paper which does suggest that this could have happened. I rather
doubt that view myself. Nevertheless, even if the Kebra Nagast
story was known in Chartres at the right time I just don’t see why

anyone would have felt motivated to translate it into the
iconography of the cathedral. That would have been a most
peculiar thing to do - particularly in the north porch which is
mainly about the Old Testament forerunners of Christ.
Melchizedek is there for that very reason, by the way. He’s
20
specifically identified with Christ in the book of Hebrews.’
‘He’s shown holding a cup in the sculpture and there’s also

some kind of cylindrical object in the cup.’
‘Probably meant to represent bread - the bread and the wine of
the Eucharist.’
‘That’s what one of my guidebooks says. But there’s another

one which identifies the cup with the Holy Grail and which
argues that the cylindrical object is a stone.’
Peter Lasko raised a quizzical eyebrow. ‘I’ve never heard such
a thing before. It sounds even more far-fetched than your theory
.’
He paused reflectively, then
of an Ethiopian connection
added: ‘There is one thing though. That scholarly paper which I
mentioned - the one that talks about Ethiopian ideas finding
.

.

their way into medieval Europe
‘Yes.’

‘Well oddly enough it’s about the Holy Grail. If I remember
rightly it argues that Wolfram von Eschenbach’s Grail - which

was a stone, not a cup - was influenced by some sort of Christian
Ethiopian tradition.’

Wolfram von
forward in my chair: ‘That’s interesting
Eschenbach was also mentioned in my guidebook. Who was he?’
‘One of the earliest of the medieval poets to concern himself
I sat

.

.

.

1

54

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

with the Holy Grail. He wrote a book-length work on the subject
called ParzivaV
‘Isn’t that the name of an opera?’

‘Yes, by Wagner. He was inspired by Wolfram.’

‘And this Wolfram

.

.

.

when did he write?’

‘Late twelfth or early thirteenth century.’

words at the same time that the north porch of
Chartres cathedral was built?’
‘In other

‘Yes.’

We both remained silent for a while, then

‘The paper
that you told me about which argues that Wolfram’s work was
influenced by Ethiopian traditions - don’t suppose you happen
to remember the title of it do you?’
‘.
Ah. No. I’m afraid not. It must have been at least twenty
years ago when I read it. It was by someone or other Adolf, I
think. That name sticks in my mind, anyway. Wolfram was a
German so you really need to talk to a specialist in Middle High
.

I

said:

.

German literature to find out more details.’
Silently resolving that I would do just that, I then asked Peter if

he could help me with a translation of the inscriptions that had so
intrigued me at Chartres. My guidebook, I told him, had
rendered ARCHA CEDERIS as ‘You are to work through the
Ark’ and HIC AMITITUR ARCHA CEDERIS as ‘Here things
take their course; you are to work through the Ark.’ These
interpretations, however, were in his view completely wrong.
ARCHA certainly meant Ark and CEDERIS was most probably
a corruption of FOEDERIS - meaning Covenant. On this
reading, therefore, ARCHA CEDERIS would translate very
simply and logically as ‘Ark of the Covenant’. Another alternative, however, was that the word CEDERIS was intended as a
form of the verb cedere - meaning to yield or to give up or to go
away. The tense was unorthodox, but the best translation of
ARCHA CEDERIS if this was the case would be ‘the Ark that
you will yield’ (or ‘give up’ or ‘send away’).
As to the longer inscription, the problem was the obscurity of
the fourth letter of the second word. My guidebook had
presumed it to be a single ‘T’. It was much more likely to be an
abbreviation representing a double ‘T’, however (because there
was no Latin word spelt AMITITUR with a single ‘T’). If a double

The Grail Cipher

55

‘T’ had indeed been intended then the phrase would read HIC

AMITTITUR ARCHA CEDERIS, meaning something like
‘Here it is let go, the Ark that you will yield’, or perhaps ‘Here it is
let go, Oh Ark, you are yielded’, or alternatively - if CEDERIS
was a corruption of FOEDERIS - ‘Here it is let go, the Ark of the
Covenant’.

was also possible, however, that the fourth letter of the
second word was a ‘C’ of some kind (which was actually what it
looked like). If so then the relevant phrase became HIC
AMICITUR ARCHA CEDERIS - which would translate
It

either
as ‘Here is hidden the Ark of the Covenant’, or ‘Here is hidden

the Ark that you will yield’ (or ‘give up’ or ‘send away’).

‘Even the word “hidden” isn’t definite,’ concluded Peter as he
closed his Latin dictionary. Amicitur in this context could equally
well mean “covered up” - although that does convey the same
sort of idea doesn’t it? I don’t know. The whole thing’s a bit of a
puzzle really.’

agreed wholeheartedly with him on this point. The whole
thing was indeed a puzzle. It was, moreover, a puzzle that I felt
challenged, intrigued and tantalized by and that I very much
I

wanted to solve.
During the remainder of my holiday in France my thoughts
kept wandering back to the north porch of Chartres where I had
seen the little sculptures. What I could not forget was the way in
which the relic on its ox-cart had appeared to be moving towards
the Queen of Sheba; nor could I dismiss from my mind the
possibility that this suggested movement or a journey towards

Ethiopia.
I

knew that I was indulging in wild speculation for which there

was no academic justification whatsoever and I fully accepted
Peter Lasko’s argument that the sculptors of Chartres would not
have allowed themselves to be influenced by an Ethiopian legend
in their choice of subject matter. This, however, left me with a
much more exciting possibility to contemplate: perhaps those
responsible for the north porch of the cathedral (which had also
21
been called ‘the door of the initiates’ ) had been drawing a
cryptic map for future generations to follow - a map that hinted at

the location of the most sacred and precious treasure that the

world had ever known. Perhaps they had discovered that the Ark

56

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

of the Covenant really had been let go, or yielded (or sent away?)
from Israel in Old Testament times and that it had subsequently

been hidden (or covered up?) in Ethiopia. Perhaps this was the
true meaning of the little sculptures with their puzzling inscriptions. If so then the implications were truly breathtaking and the
Axumite traditions that I had so readily dismissed in 1983 would,
at the very least, merit a close second look.

Mary, the Grail and the Ark

When I returned from France at the end of April 1989 I set my
research assistant to work on the problem of the scholarly paper
that Peter Lasko had mentioned to me. I knew that it might have

been written by someone named Adolf and I knew that the
subject matter had to do with a possible Ethiopian influence on
Wolfram von Eschenbach’s story of the Holy Grail. I did not
know where, or when, the paper had been published, or even in
what language, but I advised my researcher to contact the
universities to see if there were any specialists on medieval
German literature who might be able to help.
While waiting for an answer on this I went out and bought a
number of different versions of the Grail ‘romance’. These
included Chretien de Troyes’s Conte du Graal left unfinished by
22
the author in ad 1182,
Sir Thomas Malory’s Le Morte
y

D Arthur a much later epic dated to the mid-fifteenth century, 23
,

and last but not least Parzival, which Wolfram von Eschenbach
was thought to have written between the years 1195 and 1210 24
- dates that coincided almost exactly with the main phase of
construction work on the north porch of Chartres cathedral.
I began to read these books and initially found Malory’s the
most accessible - since it had been the inspiration for a number
of stories and films dealing with the quest for the Holy Grail that I
had enjoyed as a child.
I quickly discovered, however, that Malory had presented an
idealized, sanitized and above all Christianized account of ‘the only
true quest’. Wolfram’s story, by contrast, was more earthy, provided
a more accurate portrayal of the realities of human behaviour, and most important of all - was completely devoid of New Testament
symbolism where the Grail itself was concerned.

The Grail Cipher

57

In Malory the sacred relic was described as a ‘vessel of gold'
carried by a ‘perfect clean maiden’ and containing ‘part of the

blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ’. 25 This, as I was well aware, was
precisely the image that had long been enshrined in popular
culture, where the Grail was always portrayed as a cup or a bowl

(usually that in which Joseph of Arimathea caught a few drops of

Christ’s blood when the Saviour hung suffering on the cross).
I

myself had been so influenced by this conception that I found it

difficult to think of the Grail as anything other than a cup.

When I

turned to Wolfram’s Parzival however, I found confirmation of
,

what I had learned in France, namely that the relic - although
carried by a maiden just as in Malory - was depicted as a stone
:

However ill a mortal man may be, from the day on which
he sees the Stone he cannot die for that week, nor does
he lose his colour. For if anyone, maid or man, were to
look at the Gral for two hundred years, you would have to
admit that his colour was as fresh as in his early prime
Such powers does the Stone confer on mortal men that
their flesh and bones are soon made young again. This
26
Stone is called ‘The Gral’.
.

.

.

was struck by this odd and compelling imagery, and it raised a
nagging question in my mind: why should the Morte D Arthur
I

have depicted the Grail as ‘a vessel’ when the far earlier Parzival
had unambiguously described it as ‘a Stone’? What was going on
here?
I

investigated further and learnt from one authority on quest

literature that Malory was ‘merely embroidering a theme, the

meaning of which [he] did not understand’ when he wrote the
Morte D Arthur 21 That theme had been most definitively spelled
out in Wolfram’s Parzival and in Chretien de Troyes’s Conte du
28
both of which were more than two hundred years older
Graal
.

,

than the Morte.

Encouraged by this advice I turned to my copy of Chretien’s
unfinished story and there read the following description of the
Grail - the first in literature (and, for that matter, in history). As
in both Wolfram and Malory, the precious object was carried by a
damsel:

58

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

Once she had entered with this grail that she held, so
great a radiance appeared that the candles lost their
brilliance just as the stars do at the rising of the sun and

the moon

The grail
was of pure refined gold [and]
was set with many kinds of precious stones, the richest
.

.

.

.

.

.

and most costly in sea or earth. 29
At no point, I discovered, did Chretien’s manuscript explicitly
state that the Grail was a cup or bowl. It was clear from the
context, however, that this was precisely what he saw it as. In
several places he referred to a central character - ‘the Fisher
King’ - being ‘served from the grail’, 30 and later added: ‘he’s
served with a single consecrated wafer brought to him in that
grail - that supports his life in full vigour, so holy a thing is the
grail’.

31

On checking further I learned that the very word ‘grail’

was itself derived from the Old French gradale (Latin gradalis)
meaning ‘a wide and somewhat hollowed-out vessel in which
delicious food is served’. In the colloquial parlance of Chretien’s

day gradale was often pronounced great. And even in more recent
times grazal grazau and grial continued to be used in parts of the
south of France to denote receptacles of various kinds. 32
Here, therefore, was the origin of Malory’s conception of the
sacred object as a vessel. Other than the mention of ‘a
consecrated wafer’, however, Chretien’s treatment offered no
unequivocal connections with Christianity (not even in the
notion of the Grail being a ‘holy thing’ - which could as easily
have been inspired by the Old Testament as by the New 33 ). Like
Wolfram, the French poet did not mention Christ’s blood at all
,

,

and certainly did not suggest that the relic was a container for it.
It followed that the ‘sacred blood’ imagery associated with the

Grail in popular culture was a gloss added by later authors - a

some extent obscured, the
original theme. With a little more work on the subject I was able
gloss that broadened, but also to

to satisfy myself that this process of ‘Christianization’ had been
sponsored by the Cistercian monastic ' order. 34 And

the

Cistercians in their turn had been profoundly influenced and

shaped by one man - Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, who had joined
the Order in the year 1 1 1 2 and who was regarded by many
scholars as the most significant religious figure of his era. 35

The Grail Cipher

59

This same Saint Bernard, I then discovered, had also played a
formative role in the evolution and dissemination of the Gothic
architectural formula in its early days (he had been at the height
of his powers in 1134 when the soaring north tower of Chartres
cathedral had been built, and he had constantly stressed the
principles of sacred geometry that had been put into practice in
36
that tower and throughout the whole wonderful building).
Moreover, long after his death in 1153, his sermons and ideas
had continued to serve as prime sources of inspiration for the
further evolution of Gothic architecture and also for statuary and
sculptures like those I had seen in the north porch at Chartres. 37
The principal bridge between the earlier non- Christian
versions of the story of the Holy Grail and the stylized New
Testament tract that it had become by Malory’s time had been
formed by the so-called Queste del Saint Graal - compiled by
38
Cistercian monks in the thirteenth century.
Moreover,
although he was already dead when this great anthology was
begun, it seemed to me that the strong hand of Saint Bernard
could also be seen at work here - reaching out from beyond the
grave as

it

were.

I

arrived at this conclusion because, in his

extensive writings, this immensely influential cleric had pro-

pounded a mystical view of Christ’s blood, a view that was
incorporated by the compilers of the Queste into their

new

concept of the Grail itself. 39 From now on Wolfram’s Stone was
completely forgotten and Chretien’s ‘vessel’, although preserved, was filled up with the blood of Christ.
What I found interesting about this notion was the way in
which it had immediately begun to be interpreted by the church.
In hymns, sermons and epistles, I learned, subsequent generations of Christians all over Europe had gone to great lengths to
equate the Grail symbolically with the Blessed Virgin Mary - to
whom, I remembered, Chartres cathedral had been dedicated.
The reasoning underlying this pious allegory was as follows: the
Grail (according to the Queste and other later recensions of the
legend) contained the holy blood of Christ; before she gave birth
to him, Mary had contained Christ himself within her womb;
therefore, QED, the Grail was - and always had been - a symbol
for Mary. 4

°

According to this logic, Mary Theotokos, the ‘God Bearer’, was

Holy Ark and Holy Grad

6o

the sacred vessel who had contained the Spirit made flesh. Thus,
in the sixteenth-century Litany of Loretto,

41

she was the vas

spirituale (spiritual vessel), the vas honorabile (vessel of honour),
42
and the vas insigne devotionis (singular vessel of devotion).

Why did this symbolism attract my attention? Quite simply
because the Litany of Loretto had also referred to the Blessed
Virgin as area foederis 43 - which, as I already knew, was Latin for
‘the Ark of the Covenant’. I researched this coincidence further

and discovered that the Litany was not the only place in which it
cropped up. In the twelfth century, the redoubtable Saint
Bernard of Clairvaux had also explicitly compared Mary to the
Ark of the Covenant - indeed he had done so in a number of his
writings. 44 And as early as the fourth century Saint Ambrose, the
Bishop of Milan, had preached a sermon in which he had argued
that the Ark had been a prophetic allegory for Mary: just as it had
contained the Old Law in the form of the Ten Commandments,
so she had contained the New Law in the form of the body of
Christ. 45

was subsequently to discover that concepts like these had
persisted into the twentieth century and had been woven into the
I

fabric of modern Christian worship.

On a trip to Israel, for

example, I came across a small and beautiful Dominican church
built in 1924 and dedicated^ la Vierge Marie Arche d Alliance - in
other words ‘To the Virgin Maty Ark of the Covenant’. The

church stood at Kiriath-Jearim, overlooking the road between
Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, and its seven-metre steeple was topped
off with a full-sized representation of the Ark. There were also
several paintings of the sacred relic arranged around the interior
walls of the building itself. During my visit I was given the
following (very ‘Ambrosian’) explanation of the dedication - and
of the symbolism - by a senior church official, Sister Raphael
Mikhail:

‘We compare Mary to a living Ark. Mary was the mother
of Jesus, who was the master of the Law and of the
Covenant. The tablets of stone with the Ten

Commandments of the Law were placed inside the Ark
by Moses; so also God placed Jesus in the womb of Mary.
So she is the living Ark.’

The Grail Cipher

61

seemed to me highly significant that both the Ark and the
Grail, apparently so different, should nevertheless have been
compared repeatedly to the same biblical personality, and in
exactly the same way. If Mary was both a ‘living Ark’ and a ‘living
It

Graif,

I

speculated, then surely this suggested that the two

sacred objects might not in fact have been so very different - that
they might, indeed, have been one and the same thing.

This struck me as a truly electrifying possibility. And, farfetched though it at first appeared, it did shed interesting light on
the choice and juxtaposition of statuary in the north porch of
Chartres cathedral. If I was correct then Melchizedek’s ‘Graif
cup with the ‘Stone inside it would at one level have represented
Mary but could, at another, have been intended to serve as an
esoteric symbol for the Ark of the Covenant and for the stone
tablets that it had contained.
Such an interpretation, I felt, added considerable weight to the
hypothesis that the other iconography of the north porch
signalled the removal of the sacred relic to Ethiopia. But I also
realized that I had no really firm grounds on which to base a
conclusion of this magnitude - only coincidence, guesswork and
a strong intuition that I might be on to something important.
I have always been inclined to follow my intuitions to see where
they lead. However, it seemed to me that if I was going to involve
myself in a proper, thorough, expensive and time-consuming
investigation then I needed something rather more solid to go on
than a few happy accidents and presentiments.
I did not have to wait long. In June 1989 my researcher finally
managed to locate the academic paper that, according to Peter
Lasko, had suggested a possible Ethiopian influence on the
portrayal of the Holy Grail in Wolfram von Eschenbach’s
Parzival. The encouragement given to me by that paper launched
me on the quest that was to dominate my life for the next two
5

years.

Literary influence - or something more?

The

‘New Light on

Sources for
Wolfram’s ParzivaF had appeared in 1947 in the academic
journal PMLA ( Publications of the Modem Languages Association of
paper,

entitled
,

Oriental

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

62

6

The author was Helen Adolf, a highly regarded
medievalist who had taken a special interest in the literary
pedigree of the Holy Grail. The thesis that she put forward (for

America).*

which she admitted that she was indebted to two earlier
authorities 47 ) was that Wolfram - although largely influenced by
Chretien de Troyes - must also ‘have known, besides Chretien, a
Grail story in Oriental setting’.

48

When I began to read Helen Adolf’s paper I was already
aware,

from the background research that I had done, that Chretien de
Troyes had effectively ‘invented’ the Grail in 1182. Prior to that
date it had existed neither in history, nor in myth. Most
authorities on the subject agreed that there were earlier legends
- dealing, for example, with magic cauldrons, heroic quests, and
deeds of chivalry done by King Arthur and his Knights - which
the courtly poets and raconteurs had drawn upon to add texture
to their Grail stories. 49 These older lays, however, which had
been handed down by word of mouth from generation to
generation, had been too well known, too ‘tried and tested’, in
short too familiar to all and sundry, to have provided the creative
impulse for the distinct cycle of romances that Chretien initiated
in the late twelfth century.

The great French poet had never finished his famous Conte du
Within a very few years, however, Wolfram von
Eschenbach capitalized on the good start that had been made,
extending and completing his predecessor’s story - while at the
same time rather churlishly accusing Chretien of ‘doing wrong’
by it and adding that his own German text was the ‘authentic
Graal.

tale’.

50

What made such protestations seem odd was the fact that
Wolfram had obviously lifted many details directly from the Conte
du Graal and, by and large, had remained faithful to its plot and
51
characters.
Indeed there was only one glaringly obvious
difference - the bizarre innovation of making the Grail a Stone.

The motive for this innovation did, therefore, look like a genuine
mystery to some scholars. It could not have been a simple mistake
on Wolfram’s part - he was much too clever and precise a
raconteur to have made an error of such significance. The only
reasonable conclusion, therefore, was that he had described the
relic in the way he did for some special reason of his own.

The Grail Cipher

63

was to precisely this question that Helen Adolf addressed
herself in her short paper. And she offered an answer to it that I
found most intriguing. Somehow or other, she argued, Wolfram
must have gained access to the Kebra Nagast enjoyed the story
about the Ark of the Covenant being removed from Jerusalem to
Axum, and decided to work elements of it into his own Parzival.
The influence was only ‘indirect’, she thought; nevertheless the
most likely explanation for the curious character of Wolfram’s
It

,

Grail could be traced to the use, ‘in every Abyssinian church’, of

what she described as ‘a so-called
stone’.

Tabot, a slab of wood or

52

Adolf explained that

had its origins in the
religious traditions set down in the Kebra Nagast- an observation
that I knew to be correct. In 1983 I had learned that Tabot was the
local name for the sacred relic - believed to be the Ark of the
Covenant - that Menelik had supposedly brought from
Jerusalem and that was now kept in the sanctuary chapel at
Axum. Moreover, as the reader will recall, I had subsequently
discovered, as Adolf also affirmed, that each and every Ethiopian
Orthodox church possessed its own tabot These objects, which
were often spoken of as replicas of the original in Axum, were not
boxes or chests but took the form of flat slabs. The ones I had
seen had all been made of wood. Researching the matter further,
however, I discovered that many were indeed made of stone. 53
On the basis of several comparisons Adolf asserted that
Wolfram, too, had known this and had derived his Grail-Stone
from the Ethiopian tabot. She also pointed out that not all the
characters in Parzival had been borrowed from Chretien de
Troyes; there were a few additional figures whose origins were
mysterious and who might well have been inspired by the Kebra
Nagast. She could offer no solid explanation as to how the
this

practice

.

German raconteur could have become familiar with the Kebra
Nagast but suggested rather tentatively that wandering Jews
might have brought it to Europe. In the medieval period, she
pointed out, ‘the Jews were not only the mediators between Arabs

and Christians in general. They had a special stake in Ethiopia,
where they formed, and still form, an important part of the
population.’ 54
I

found Adolf’s arguments persuasive but extremely limited in

64

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

scope. She had confined herself to the specialized field of literary
criticism, and accordingly her concerns had been of an entirely

Having set out to prove the possibility of a
connection between the Kebra Nagast and Parzival (with the
former ‘indirectly influencing’ the latter) she had been quite
happy to stop when she felt she had achieved this goal. I was
enormously grateful to her, however, because she had opened my
eyes to something far more exciting - something of infinitely
literary nature.

greater significance.

On the basis of the comparisons cited earlier between the Ark of
the Covenant, the Holy Grail, and Mary the Mother of Christ, I had

already begun to wonder whether the identities of the Ark and the

Grail were really as distinct and separate as they seemed at first
sight.

Now it occurred to me that if Wolfram’s Grail looked as if it

had been influenced by Ethiopian traditions concerning the Ark
then there was just a chance that there could be more to this perhaps much more - than Helen Adolf had ever guessed. To cut a
long story short, I began to wonder whether the German poet might
not have deliberately constructed his fictional Grail as a kind of

and historical Ark. If so then the quest that
formed the central theme of Parzival could also be a code that
might, like some cryptic treasure map, point the way to the last
resting place of the Ark itself.
I had already become intrigued by the possibility that a similar
code in the north porch of Chartres cathedral - though carved in
stone rather than written in a book - might hint that the relic had
been taken to Ethiopia. It was therefore with real enthusiasm and
‘code’ for the real

excitement that I set out to try to ‘decode’ Parzival.

Celestial writing, laws and oracles

seemed to me that my initial task should be to determine
whether Wolfram’s Grail could indeed have been designed as a
sort of cryptogram for the Ark of the Covenant. To this end I
decided that I would temporarily postpone further examination
of the Ethiopian connection suggested by Adolf. Instead I would
It

look for direct parallels between the characteristics of the Grail

and the characteristics of the Ark as described in the Old
Testament and other ancient Jewish sources. Only if those

The Grail Cipher
parallels proved persuasive would there be

65

any point in going

further.

The first thing that attracted my attention was the way in which
Wolfram had transformed Chretien’s Grail cup - or vessel - into
a stone. It occurred to me that the French poet’s description of

the Grail had been sufficiently vague and mystical to allow

Wolfram to impose an identity on it, to mould his predecessor’s
rather imprecise concept of a sacred receptacle into a shape that
suited his own purposes - in short to define that receptacle by

speaking not directly of it but of its contents

.

The Ark of the Covenant was, after all, a receptacle too, and it
did indeed contain a stone - or rather two stone tablets upon

which the Ten Commandments had been inscribed by the finger
of God. I therefore found it intriguing that Wolfram’s Grail, like
the Tablets of the Law, bore - from time to time - the imprint of a
celestial script which set out certain rules. 55
There were other such coincidences - for example, the
oracular function that the Grail played for the community that
depended on it:

We fell on our knees before the Gral, where suddenly we
saw it written that a knight would come to us and were he
heard to ask a Question there, our sorrows would be at an
end; but that if any child, maiden or man were to
forewarn him of the Question it would fail in its effect,
and the injury would be as it was and give rise to deeper
pain. ‘Have you understood?’ asked the Writing. ‘If you
alert him it could prove harmful. If he omits the question

on the first evening, its power will pass away. But if he
asks his Question in season he shall have the

Kingdom.’ 56

The Ark, too, frequently served as an oracle, dispensing advice
that was crucial to the survival of the Israelites. In the book of

Judges, for example, where the identity of God Himself was often
completely fused with that of the Ark, I found this passage:

And the children of Israel enquired of the Lord, (for the
Ark of the Covenant of God was there in those days, and

66

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before
it in

those days), saying Shall I yet again go out to battle

against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I
cease?’ And the Lord said, Go up: for tomorrow I will
deliver them into thine hand. 57

came across a much later biblical passage which stated that
it had become rare for the Ark actually to speak and that Visions’
were now ‘uncommon’. Nevertheless, as the prophet Samuel lay
down ‘in the house of the Lord, where the Ark of God was’, a
I also

voice issued forth from the sacred relic warning: ‘Behold, I will

do a thing in Israel at which both the ears of everyone that heareth
it

shall tingle.’

58

Neither were utterances and visions the only ways in which the
Ark communicated its oracular messages. Like the Grail, it also

used the written word from time to time - notably to impart to
King David the blueprint for the Temple that his son Solomon

was to build. 59

The weight of sin, the golden calf, and stones from
heaven
As my research progressed I discovered many other shared
characteristics linking the Grail to the Ark - and particularly to
the Tablets of Stone. One example concerned the way in which
the weight of the relic seemed to be spiritually controlled.
According to Wolfram: ‘the Gral [while it may be carried by the
pure of heart] is so heavy that sinful mortals could not lift it from
its place.’

60

thought there might well be a connection to an
ancient Jewish legend which described the moment when the
In this,

I

prophet Moses descended from Mount Sinai carrying the
Tablets of Stone, then freshly inscribed with the divine words of
the Ten Commandments. As he came into camp the prophet
caught the children of Israel in the act of worshipping the golden
calf, a sin so unspeakable that:
All at once he saw the writing vanish from the tablets, and
at the same time became aware of their enormous weight;

The Grail Cipher

67

for while the celestial writing was upon them they carried

their own weight and did not burden Moses, but with the

disappearance of the writing all this changed.

In Wolfram’s cryptic prose the golden

61

calf,

too,

made an

appearance. It did so, moreover, in a context so crucial that I felt
certain that the author was using it quite deliberately to convey a

message - a message further identifying the Grail with the Ark:

There was a heathen named Flegetanis [I read in Chapter
9 of Parzival\ who was highly renowned for his
acquirements. This same physicus was descended from
Solomon, begotten of Israelitish kin all the way down
from ancient times ... He wrote of the marvels of the
Gral. Flegetanis, who worshipped a calf as though it were his
god was a heathen by his father
[and] was able to
.

,

.

.

define for us the recession of each planet and its return,

and how long each revolves in its orbit before it stands at
its mark again. All human kind are affected by the
revolutions of the planets. With his own eyes the heathen
Flegetanis saw - and he spoke of it reverentially - hidden
secrets in the constellations. He declared there was a
thing called the Gral, whose name he read in the stars
without more ado. ‘A troop [of Angels] left it on earth and
then rose high above the stars, as if their innocence drew
62
them back again.’

To my mind what was really important about this passage was the
way in which it used Flegetanis (with his intriguingly Solomonic
and Jewish/pagan background) to signal an astral origin for the
Grail.

Why important? Simply because some of the most serious
biblical scholarship that

I

studied argued that the Tablets of

Stone contained within the Ark of the Covenant had, in reality,
been two pieces of a meteorite 63 Neither was this merely some
latter-day interpretation that could not have been shared by
Moses and by the Levitical priests who attended the Ark. On the
contrary, since ancient times, Semitic tribes such as the children
.

\

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

68

of Israel had been
heaven’.

known to venerate stones that ‘fell from

64

The best illustration of this custom, since it had continued into
modern times, was the special reverence accorded by Muslims to
the sacred Black Stone built into a corner of the wall of the

Kaaba in Mecca. Kissed by every pilgrim making the Haj to the
holy site, this stone was declared by the Prophet Muhammad to

have fallen from heaven to earth where it was first given to Adam to
absorb his sins after his expulsion from the Garden of Eden; later
it was presented by the angel Gabriel to Abraham, the Hebrew
Patriarch; finally it became the cornerstone of the Ka aba - the
’

‘beating heart’ of the Islamic world.

Geologists,

learned, unhesitatingly attributed a meteoric

I

origin to the Black Stone.

known as betyls

65

,

66

Likewise the pairs of sacred stones,
that some pre -Islamic Arab tribes carried on

their desert wanderings were believed to have been aerolites -

and it was recognized that a direct line of cultural transmission
linked these betyls (which were often placed in portable shrines)
with the Black Stone of the Kaaba and with the stone Tablets of
the Law contained within the Ark.
I

tjien

67

discovered that betyls had been known in medieval

Europe as lapis betilis - a name:

stemming from Semitic origins and taken over at a late
date by the Greeks and Romans for sacred stones that
were assumed to possess a divine life, stones with a soul
[that were used] for divers superstitions, for magic and
for fortunetelling. They were meteoric stones fallen from
the sky.

68

In such a context, I found it hard to believe that Wolfram had

merely been indulging in flights of fancy when he had specified a
meteoric origin for his Grail-Stone. Not only did he use his
character Flegetanis to this end but also, a few pages further on,
he provided a strange alternative name for the Grail - Lapsit
6g
exillis
Although I came across a variety of interpretations for
70
the real meaning of this pseudo-Latin epithet,
the most
plausible by far was that it had been derived from lapis ex caelis
(‘stone from heaven’), lapsit ex caelis (‘it fell from heaven’), or even
‘

The Grail Cipher

69

‘stone fallen from heaven’. 71

At the same
time it seemed to me that the bastardized words Lapsit exillis were
lapis

,

lapsus ex caelis

,

quite close enough to lapis betilis to raise the suspicion that the

German poet had intended a deliberate - and characteristically
cryptic - pun.

Benedictions, supernatural light, and the power of
choice

Another and quite different area of comparison lay in Wolfram’s
repeated descriptions of the Grail as a source of blessing and
fertility for those pure -hearted people who came into contact
with it. To cite one example amongst many, 72 I found this
passage in Chapter 5 of Parzival:

Whatever one stretched out one’s hand for in the
presence of the Gral, it was waiting, one found it all ready
and to hand - dishes warm, dishes cold, new-fangled
dishes and old favourites ... for the Gral was the very
fruit of bliss, a cornucopia of the sweets of this world. 73

seemed to me quite probable that this description echoed an
ancient Talmudic commentary which had it that:
It

When Solomon brought the Ark into the Temple, all the
golden trees that were in the Temple were filled with
moisture and produced abundant fruit, to the great profit
and enjoyment of the priestly guild. 74

found an even closer correspondence between the Ark and
the Grail in the otherworldly luminescence said to have been given
off by both objects. The Holy of Holies in Solomon’s Temple
(where the Ark was installed before it mysteriously vanished) was
I

a place of ‘thick darkness’ according to the Bible.

75

Talmudic

sources recorded, however, that: ‘The High Priest of Israel

entered and left by the light that the Holy Ark issued forth - a
’

convenient state of affairs that changed after the relic disap76
peared. From then on the Priest ‘groped his way in the dark’.
The Ark, therefore, was a source of paranormal lambency: a

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

70

*

dazzling radiance was emitted by

it

- as numerous biblical

passages confirmed. 77 In similar fashion Chretien’s Grail, which

thought that Wolfram had been happy to accept (because it
provided the receptacle part of the Ark cipher that he then
that
completed with his Stone), sent out a radiance ‘so great
candles lost their brilliance just as the stars do at the rising of
I

.

.

.

.

.

.

the sun or moon.’

78

Chretien’s Grail was likewise made of ‘pure gold’ 79 while the
80

Ark was ‘overlaid with pure gold, within and without’ and was
covered with a lid (known as the ‘mercy seat’) which was also ‘of
81
pure gold’. But it was not from this precious metal that Ark and
Grail derived their light- generating quality; rather this was the
product of their shared impregnation with a fiery celestial energy.
And it was this same energy (cast forth by the Tablets of Stone
after the Ten Commandments had been inscribed upon them by
the finger of God) that caused Moses’ face to shine with an eerie,
supernatural brilliance when he descended from Mount Sinai:

As he came down from the mountain, Moses had the two
Tablets of the Testimony in his hands. He did not know
And when Aaron
that the skin on his face was radiant
and all the sons of Israel saw Moses, the skin on his face
82
shone so much that they would not venture near him.
.

.

.

therefore thought it not entirely coincidental that Wolfram’s

I

Grail-Stone, on its very first appearance in Parzival was carried
,

hands of a certain Repanse de Schoye
whose face ‘shed such refulgence that all imagined it was
in procession in the

sunrise.

J

The heaven-destined hero
Repanse de Schoye was a ‘Princess’ 84 and was also ‘of perfect
85
chastity’.
Her most important characteristic, however, was that
the Grail had chosen her: ‘She whom the Gral suffered to carry
itself’, Wolfram explained, ‘had the name Repanse de Schoye
By her alone, no other I am told, did the Gral let itself be
.

.

.

carried.’

86

Such phrases seemed to imply that the relic possessed a kind

The Grail Cipher

71

of sentience. And linked to this was another quality: ‘No man can

win the Gral,’ Wolfram stated in Chapter 9 of Parzival ‘other
than one who is acknowledged in Heaven as destined for it.’ 87
The same point was then forcefully reiterated in Chapter 1 5 ‘No
man could ever win the Gral by force, except the one who is
summoned there by God.’ 88
These two notions - of the Grail exercising powers of choice
and of it being a prize to be won only by those who were
‘Heaven-destined’ - were of great importance in Wolfram’s
overall scheme of things. I concluded, moreover, that precedents
were provided for both of them in biblical descriptions of the Ark
,

:

of the Covenant. In Numbers 10:33, for instance, it chose the
route that the children of Israel were to take through the desert,

and it also determined where they should camp. Meanwhile in
the book of Chronicles there was this example of certain
individuals being ‘Heaven-destined’ for the Ark:

None ought to carry the Ark of God but the Levites; for
them hath the Lord chosen to carry the Ark of God and
to minister unto it.

89

was not in the Bible, however, that I found the closest
correspondences between the Ark of the Covenant and
Wolfram’s sentient, Heaven-destined Grail. These came rather
in the Kebra Nagast which told the story of the Ark’s abduction to
Ethiopia. In Sir E. A. Wallis Budge’s authoritative English
90
I came across this passage in which the sacred relic
translation
was referred to almost as though it were a feminine person (who,
like all ladies, could change her mind):
It

,

And as for what thou sayest concerning the going of the
Ark of the Covenant to their city, to the country of
Ethiopia, if God willed it and she herself willed it, there is

no one who could prevent her; for of her own will she
went and of her own will she will return if God
pleaseth.

91

Next I noted the following strange references which seemed to
imply that the relic possessed intelligence and also that the

72

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
*

honour of keeping

it

was granted

as

a

result of heavenly

predestination:
*

The Ark goeth of its own free will whithersoever it
wisheth, and it cannot be removed from its seat if it does

not desire it.

92

Without the Will of God the Ark of God will not dwell in
any place. 93

But the chosen ones of the Lord are the people of
Ethiopia. For there is the habitation of God, the heavenly
ZION, 94 the Ark of His Covenant. 95
Last but not least, in Chapter 60 of the Kebra Nagast

found a
lengthy lamentation supposedly uttered by Solomon when he
learned that the Ark had been abducted by his son Menelik from
the Holy of Holies of the Temple in Jerusalem. At the moment of
his bitterest grief an angel appeared to him and asked:
,

I

‘Why art thou thus sorrowful? For this hath happened by
the Will of God. The Ark hath

been given ... to thy
.’ And the King was comforted by this
first-born son
word, and he said, ‘The will of God be done and not the
.

will of man.’

.

.

.

.

96

Could this not be, I wondered, exactly what had been in
Wolfram’s mind when he had written that ‘no man could ever win
the Gral by force except the one who is summoned there by
God’? In other words, if the Grail was indeed a cryptogram for
the Ark then might not the prototype for the German poet’s
‘Heaven-destined’ hero have been none other than Menelik
himself?

To answer this question I read Parzival again. I was not
looking, however, for literary influences from the Kebra Nagast as Helen Adolf had done - but rather for the presence of explicit

clues embedded within the text which pointed in the direction of
Ethiopia. I wanted to know whether there was there anything at
all to suggest that Ethiopia might in fact

Wolfram’s mysterious

The Grail Cipher
Terre Salvaesche91

73

- the land of the Grail and, therefore, by

implication, the land of the Ark.

Chapter 4

-

A Map to Hidden Treasure

My readings of Parzival during the spring and summer of 1989
had brought a startling possibility to my attention: the fictional
object known as the Holy Grail could have been devised to serve
as a complex symbol for the Ark of the Covenant. This in turn
had led me to formulate another hypothesis - namely that behind
Wolfram von Eschenbach’s Heaven-destined Grail hero, there
might lie another figure who, once recognized, would point the
way to the heart of the mystery of the whereabouts of the Ark - a
figure whose real identity the poet had therefore disguised
beneath layers of arcane and sometimes deliberately misleading
detail's. This figure, I suspected, might be none other than
Menelik I - the son of the Queen of Sheba and King Solomon
who, according to Abyssinian legends, had brought the Ark of the
Covenant to Ethiopia. If there was anything at all to this
speculation, I reasoned, then I might hope to find further clues
embedded in Parzival - cryptic clues that might be obscured by
frequent false trails, that might be scattered here and there
amongst widely separated chapters, that might be calculatedly
vague and ambiguous, but that would, nevertheless, serve to
reinforce the Ethiopian connection if only they could be gathered

together and made sense of.

Ebony and ivory
found the first of these clues early in the text of Parzival in a
chapter which spoke of a far-off land called ‘Zazamanc’ where
the people ‘were all as dark as night’. To this land came a
2
wandering European aristocrat, ‘Gahmuret of Anjou’, and there
I

1

1

A Map to Hidden Treasure

75

he fell in love with no lesser personage than the queen - ‘sweet
and constant Belacane’. 3
In ‘Belacane’ I could not help but hear an echo of ‘Makeda’,
the Ethiopian name for the Queen of Sheba that I had first
become acquainted with when I had visited Axum in 1983 was
also aware that this same monarch had been known in Muslim
tradition as Bilquis. 4 Since I was by this time quite familiar with
Wolfram’s love of neologisms, and with his tendency to make up
new and fanciful names by running old ones together, it seemed
to me rash totally to reject the possibility that ‘Belacane’ might be
a kind of composite of ‘Bilquis’ and ‘Makeda’ - and doubly rash
.

since the poet described her as a ‘dusky queen’. 5

When I looked more closely at the love affair between
Belacane and Gahmuret, recounted at length in the first chapter
of Parzival I found further echoes of the King Solomon and
Queen of Sheba story told in the Kebra Nagast and also, with
minor variations, in a range of other Ethiopian legends. In this
connection I felt it was not accidental that Wolfram had gone to
,

considerable lengths to

make it clear that Gahmuret - like

Solomon - was white, while Belacane, like Makeda, was black.
For example, after the arrival of the ‘fair complexioned’
6
Angevin knight in Zazamanc, Belacane observed to her handmaidens: ‘His skin is a different colour from ours. I only hope this
7
Certainly it was not, because her
is no sore point with him?’
romance with Gahmuret blossomed in the following weeks, one
thing led to another, and eventually the couple retired to her

bedroom in the palace:

The Queen disarmed him with her own dark hands.
There was a magnificent bed with a sable coverlet, where
a new though private honour awaited him. They were
now alone: the young ladies-in-waiting had left the room
and closed the doors behind them. The Queen yielded to
sweet and noble love with Gahmuret, her heart’s own
8
darling, little though their skins matched in colour.

The

lovers

married. Because Belacane was an unbaptized

heathen, however, and Gahmuret a Christian with many deeds of
chivalry still to do, he fled Zazamanc when she was ‘twelve weeks

gone with child’ 9 and left her only this letter:

76

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
%

‘Like a thief I have sailed away. I had to steal away to

spare our tears. Madam, I cannot conceal it that did you

but live within my rite I would long for you to all eternity.
Even now my passion gives me endless torment! If our
child has the aspect of a man, I swear he will be brave.’

10

Long after his departure Gahmuret continued to suffer agonies
of remorse since ‘the dusky lady was dearer to him than life’.
Later he proclaimed:

11

‘Now many an ignorant fellow may think that it was her
black skin I ran away from, but in my eyes she was as
bright as the sun! The thought of her womanly excellence
afflicts me, for if noblesse were a shield she would be its

centre-piece.’

12

So much then for Belacane and Gahmuret. But what of their
child?

When her time came the lady was delivered of a son. His
skin was pied. It had pleased God to make a marvel of

him, for he was both black and white. The Queen fell to
kissing his white spots, time and time again. The name

she gave her little boy was Feirefiz the Angevin. When he

grew up he cleared whole forests - so many lances did he
shatter, punching holes in shields. His hair and all his
13
skin were particoloured like a magpie.

Wolfram could hardly have found

more graphic way to
emphasize that Feirefiz was a half-caste - the product of a union

between

a black

a

woman and a white man. This half-caste

Feirefiz, furthermore, was to go on to play a crucial role in the

story o fParzival. His father, the amorous Gahmuret, returned to

Europe

Belacane and there married another
queen, a certain Herzeloyde, whom he immediately set about
making pregnant. He then abandoned her also, went off to have
several more adventures, earned great honour in a series of
battles, and eventually managed to get himself killed. ‘A fortnight
later,’ Wolfram related, Herzeloyde ‘was delivered of a babe, a
after deserting

A Map to Hidden Treasure

77

son so big in the bone that she scarce survived/ 14 That son was
Parzival himself, the eponymous hero of Wolfram’s tale and -

through Gahmuret - the half-brother of Feirefiz. 15
In the Kebra Nagast and other relevant Ethiopian legends there

numerous parallels to the complex of
relationships involving Gahmuret, Belacane, Feirefiz, Parzival et
al. These parallels were often of an indirect kind; nevertheless I
had come to expect such tantalizing hints from Wolfram and I
became increasingly confident that he was laying down a trail of
clues that - through snares and mazes - would lead me to
were,

I

discovered,

Ethiopia in the end.

The constant references to the contrasting blackness and
whiteness of Belacane and Gahmuret had been unmissable
features of the opening sections of Parzival. In the Kebra Nagast
the lovers were King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba. Like
16

Gahmuret and Belacane they had retired to bed together. Like
Gahmuret and Belacane, one of them (in this case Makeda) had
17
deserted the other and gone on a long journey. Like Gahmuret
and Belacane the fruit of their union had been a half-caste son, in
18
And again like Gahmuret and Belacane, the
this case Menelik.
difference in their colour was repeatedly emphasized in the
relevant text, in this case the Kebra Nagast. In a typical scene the
Jewish monarch was upbraided for Menelik’s abduction of the
Ark in the following unambiguous terms:

Thy son hath carried away the Ark of the Covenant, 19 thy
son whom thou hast begotten, who springeth from an
alien people into which God hath not commanded you to
marry, that is to say from an Ethiopian woman, who is not
of thy colour, and is not akin to thy country, and who is,
moreover, black.

20

There were, in addition, certain parallels between Menelik
and Feirefiz which went beyond their shared identity as halfcastes. Amongst these, for example, was the curiosity of the very
name ‘Feirefiz’. What language did it belong to, and what - if
anything - did it mean? I checked and discovered that literary
critics had quite firm ideas on this subject. Most interpreted the
strange -sounding epithet as a characteristic Wolfram neologism

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

78

based on the French words ‘vair fils’ meaning, literally, ‘piebald
21
Another school of thought, however, derived it equally
son’.
22
plausibly from ‘vrai fils’ - ‘true son’.
In the Kebra Nagast itself I could find no comparison directly
reflecting either etymology (although, in Chapter 36, Solomon
declared, on first being introduced to Menelik: ‘Look ye, this is
my son’ 23 ). In a somewhat different but equally ancient Ethiopic
recension of the same legend, however (translated into English in
1904 by Professor Erno Littman of Princeton University), the
moment of the meeting between Solomon and Menelik was also
described, and contained this passage:

At once Menelik went to him and took his hand to greet
him. Then said Solomon: ‘Thou art my true son’. 24
‘Vrai fils’, in other words!

Devious mechanisms
Coincidences like these made it increasingly difficult for me to
resist the notion that Wolfram had indeed linked his Feirefiz with
Menelik. Why should he have done that? Not, I speculated,
because he had been influencedby the Kebra Nagast (as the scholar
Helen Adolf had suggested in the 1 940s 25 ) but rather because he
had known the final resting place of the Ark of the Covenant to be
in Ethiopia, and because he had set out to encode this knowledge
within the story of Parzival - which was thus a kind of literary
‘treasure map’ that used the Grail as a cryptogram for the Ark
itself.

Wolfram had been addicted to ingenious tricks - to a species of
verbal legerdemain that was as baffling as it was entertaining. I
felt,

however, that I was beginning to see through most of his

illusions and also to recognize the decoys that he so frequently set

up in order to lure his readers away from the secret that lay
hidden at the heart of his story. I was therefore undisturbed by
the fact that it was not Feirefiz himself who was depicted as being
on a quest for the Grail - nor Feirefiz who was eventually
accorded the honour of finding the precious relic. Such an
outcome would have provided much too direct and obvious a

A Map to Hidden Treasure

79

pointer. And, besides, Wolfram could not have afforded to allow

the heathen half-caste son of a black queen to become the hero of
a

romance written for the amusement of medieval European

Christians.

For these reasons, it seemed to me that the clever German
poet had been quite content to let all-white, all-good Parzival win
through to the non-existent Grail - which was the only thing that
most of his audience would be interested in. Meanwhile, for the
discerning few, it would be Feirefiz - the true son - who would
point the way to the Ark.

needed something more solid to
support this hypothesis than just a series of coincidences - no
matter how suggestive and intriguing these coincidences might
seem. I therefore set about the brain-bending task of combing
I

realized, however, that I

through Parzival yet again.
Eventually I found what I was looking for. I remembered from
my previous readings that Feirefiz had ended up marrying
2
Repanse de Schoye ° - the pure and perfect Grail-bearer who,
surrounded by an aura of sanctity and power, had appeared and
disappeared constantly throughout the story. Now I came across
a small but highly significant detail contained in a single line that I
had missed before: according to Wolfram’s ‘happily-ever-after’
conclusion, the son of Feirefiz and Repanse de Schoye had been

named ‘Prester John’. 27
It was obvious to

clue.

I

me at once that this could be a momentous

knew that the first Europeans to arrive in Ethiopia had
28

addressed the monarchs of that country as Trester John’. 1 also
knew that the legendary founder of the self-styled ‘Solomonic’
dynasty to which those monarchs had belonged had been
Menelik I - the supposed son of Solomon and the Queen of
Sheba. I therefore could not help but be excited to read that
Repanse de Schoye had given Feirefiz ‘a son named “John”
’

and, moreover, that ‘They called him “Prester John”, and, ever
since, they call their kings by no other name.’

29

would have been very nice if I had been able, there and then,
to demonstrate that the land of the Grail - Terre Salvaesche - was
in fact the same as the land ruled by ‘Prester John’. Such a direct
linkage would, at the very least, have enormously strengthened
what I was coming to think of as my ‘treasure map’ theory of
It

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

8o

Wolfram’s work. Unfortunately, however, there was not a single
shred of evidence in Parzival to support this view: the location of
Terre Salvaesche was never spelled out in anything other than the

most dreamlike and indefinite terms and at no point was it
suggested that its king was ‘Prester John’.
I was about to conclude that I had marched optimistically into
an extremely depressing cul de sac when I discovered that there
was another medieval German epic in which Prester John did
become the guardian of the Grail. Called Der Jfiingerer Titurel
(‘The Younger Titurel’), it was written in a style so close to that of
Parzival that scholars had long attributed it to Wolfram himself
30
(this attribution dated back to the thirteenth century).
Relatively recently, however, the hand of a slightly later author
had been detected. Thought to have been a certain Albrecht von
Scharfenberg, this author was believed to have compiled ‘The
Younger Titurel’ between 1270 and 1275 (about fifty years after
Wolfram’s death) and to have based it on previously uncirculated
fragments of Wolfram's own work ? Indeed Albrecht’s identifica32
had been so complete that he had actually
tion with ‘his master’
claimed to be Wolfram, ‘adopting not just his name and subject
matter but also his mannerisms as a narrator and even the details
1

of his personal history.’ 33
I

knew that there was a well established tradition in medieval

literature of later writers extending and completing the work of

their predecessors. Wolfram’s Parzival had itself grown out of

Chretien de Troyes’s original story of the Holy Grail. Now it

seemed that it had been left to a third poet, Albrecht, to provide
an ending to that story - an ending in which the Grail found its
last resting place.

This last resting place, as ‘The Younger Titurel’ stated clearly,
was the land of Prester John. 34 I thought it highly significant that
such a statement existed in the literature of the Grail and,
moreover, that it had been made by a Wolfram acolyte who
appeared to have had privileged access to the notes and jottings
of Wolfram himself. This, in my opinion, was just the sort of
devious mechanism that ‘the master’ might have set up in order
not to have to spell out his Ethiopian secret too bluntly in Parzival
- while at the same time ensuring that that secret would be
transmitted to future generations.

A Map to Hidden Treasure

81

Perhaps this conclusion was warranted; perhaps it was not.
Its significance, however, lay less in its academic merits than in
the fact that it encouraged me to take Wolfram’s own brief
mention of Trester John’ seriously - and thus to persevere with
what turned out to be an exhausting but ultimately fruitful
investigation.

The purpose of that investigation was to find the answer to a
single question: when Wolfram talked of Trester John’ could he
have had an Ethiopian monarch in mind?
The first indications were that he had not; indeed he stated
plainly that Trester John’s’ birth had taken place in ‘India’ 35 - a
country of which Feirefiz was apparently the king and to which he
and Repanse de Schoye had returned after the adventures
described in Parzival were over.

To complicate the picture further the same paragraph then
went on to advise that ‘India’ was also known as ‘Tribalibot’
36
(‘Here we call it “India”: there it is “Tribalibot”’ ). Checking
back I found earlier passages in which Feirefiz had been spoken
of as the ‘Lord of Tribalibot’ 37 - which was consistent enough
since I now knew that his son Trester John’ had ultimately
succeeded him as the ruler of Tribalibot/India. However, I could
hardly forget that Feirefiz was himself the son of Belacane the
Queen of ‘Zazamanc’. I was therefore not surprised to learn that
Wolfram had also referred to Feirefiz as the ‘King of
Zazamanc’. 38

The only reasonable conclusion to be drawn from this confetti
of exotic titles and appellations was that ‘Zazamanc’, ‘Tribalibot’
and ‘India’ were all, in fact, the same place. But could this place
possibly be Ethiopia? Wasn’t it much more reasonable to assume

- since he had actually named it - that Wolfram had had the
subcontinent of India in mind all along?
decided to research the real, historical pedigree of Trester
John’ to see if this would shed any more light on the problem.
I

A real king
The name Trester John’, I discovered, had been completely
unknown before the twelfth century - a century during which
European Crusaders had occupied the Holy City of Jerusalem

82

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
rv

for a continuous period of more than eighty years (they were
finally expelled by the Saracens in 1 187). Historians agreed that

the very first mention of Prester John had been made roughly

half-way through this period - in 1 145 in the Chronicle of Bishop
Otto of Freisingen. Claiming that his informant was a Syrian

churchman, the bishop had written of a certain ‘John, king and
priest [rex et sacerdos]', a Christian who lived in ‘the uttermost

East’ where he commanded enormous armies which, apparently,

he wished to put at the disposal of the defenders of Jerusalem.
This ‘Prester John - for so he was wont to be styled’ was said to be
so rich that he used a sceptre of solid emerald. 39
Subsequently, in 1 1 65 a letter purporting to have been written
by Prester John himself and addressed to ‘various Christian
kings, especially to the Emperor Manuel of Constantinople and
40
the Roman Emperor Frederick’,
was circulated widely in
Europe. Filled with the most preposterous, legendary and
,

supernatural claims, this lengthy epistle stated, inter alia, that the
Prester’s realm was divided into four parts ‘for there are so many
Indias’.

41

The next development came in 1 1 77 when Pope Alexander III
(writing from Venice) addressed a letter to his

‘

dearest son in

and magnificent King of the Indians ', 42
Although the Pope certainly believed that he was replying to the
author of the 1165 letter he made it clear that he had also had
information about ‘the Prester’ from another source. He spoke,
for example, of his personal physician, ‘the leech Philip’, who had
apparently been approached in Jerusalem by the Prester’s
emissaries. Significantly these emissaries, who were referred to
as ‘honourable persons of the monarch’s kingdom’, had
expressed their ruler’s desire to be granted something that had
not even been mentioned in the 1165 letter - a sanctuary in the
Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. 43 Responding to
this request, the Pope commented:
Christ John,

illustrious

,

The more nobly and magnanimously thou conductest
thyself, and the less thou vauntest of thy wealth and

power, the more readily shall we regard thy wish as to the
concession of [an altar] in the Church of the Lord’s
Sepulchre at Jerusalem. 44

A Map to Hidden Treasure

83

There was much that was puzzling in these twelfth-century
documents. But the one thing that was clear from all of them was
that Prester John, in his earliest incarnations, had been explicitly
associated with ‘India’. As I looked more deeply into the whole
issue I was able to confirm that this was indeed the case: again
and again ‘the Prester’s’ realms were referred to as India or, more
loosely, ‘the Indies’.

was quite obvious, however, that none of the medieval
authorities concerned had had any firm idea in their own minds
as to where exactly India and/or the Indies were. And it was
equally obvious, when they talked about ‘India’, that they were
It

only rarely speaking of the subcontinent itself. The majority of
the references were quite clearly to some other place, perhaps in
Africa, perhaps elsewhere - although nobody really seemed to

know.

As I researched the subject further I began to understand what
the source of all this uncertainty might have been: for more than a
thousand years before the earliest mention of Prester John a
profound terminological muddle had existed in which ‘India’ had
frequently been confused with ‘Ethiopia’. Indeed from the first
century bc (when Virgil had written of the Nile rising in ‘India’),
until at least the time of Marco Polo - when all the countries that
bordered on the Indian Ocean were still referred to as ‘the
Indies’ 45 - the terms ‘Ethiopia’ and ‘India’ appeared to have
been used as though they were completely interchangeable.

The classic example of this lay in the works of Rufinius, the
fourth-century Byzantine theologian who had compiled the
definitive account of Ethiopia’s conversion to Christianity that I
had studied in 1983. 46 The details of this important treatise

(which included place names such as Axum and historically
recognized figures such as Frumentius and King Ezana) confirmed beyond all doubt that the country Rufinius had talked

about had indeed been Ethiopia; nevertheless he had referred to
47
it throughout as ‘India’.
This had happened, as one historian explained, because ‘the
early geographers had always regarded Ethiopia as the western
48

Moreover, it seemed that this
same geographical mistake, coupled with the curious letters that
had circulated in the twelfth century, had helped to create the

part of the great empire of India’.

84

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

impression that Prester John was an Asiatic, indeed an Indian,
king.

This impression, though erroneous, had proved so tenacious that
it was still in evidence long after ‘the Prester’ had ceased to be a
mythical figure - and long after his realms had been firmly located
in the Horn of Africa. In the late thirteenth century, for example,
Marco Polo provided some insight into the conventional wisdom of
his era when he wrote that ‘Abyssinia is a large province and is called
middle or second India. The ruler of this country is a Christian.’ 49
Similarly,

in

fourteenth century, the

the

Florentine traveller

Simone Sigoli was still speaking of ‘Presto Giovanni’ as a monarch
dwelling in India; this ‘India’, however, was a land which bordered
on the dominions of the Sultan of Egypt and its king was described
as being the ‘master of the Nile’, the flow of which into Egypt he was
believed to be able to control.

50

Rather later, when the first official

Portuguese embassy was sent to Ethiopia in the sixteenth century,
its members believed that they were going to meet ‘the Prester John
of the Indies’. The authorised account of this mission was
subsequently written by Father Francisco Alvarez, who
disembarked at the Red Sea port of Massawa in April 1520 and
then spent the next six years travelling overland around Ethiopia.
Despite this arduous physical tour of what was unmistakably part of
the African mainland, the title of his work continued to reflect the
old terminological confusion:

‘

Verdadera Informacam das terras do

Prestefoam das Indias' (‘Truthful information about the countries of
51
the Prester John of the Indies’).

Throughout

his

scholarly and

informative book, Alvarez

always referred to the Emperor of Ethiopia as ‘the Prester’ or as
52

was also able to establish that much earlier
than this - in 1352 - the Franciscan Giovanni de Marignolli,
apostolic legate in Asia, had spoken (in his Chronica) of ‘Ethiopia
where the negroes are and which is called the land of Prester
John’. 53 Similarly in 1328 a certain Friar Jordanus ‘Catalani’ had
referred to the Emperor of the Ethiopians quem vos vocatis Prestre
And, later, in 1459, Fra Mauro’s well regarded map of
Johan'
‘Prester John’.

I

‘

the then known world indicated a great city within the boundaries
i

of present-day Ethiopia with the rubric: Qui il Preste Janni fa
residentia principal' 55

Surveying
literally

all

the conflicting references before

dazed: sometimes,

it

me I felt

seemed, Prester John had been

,

A Map to Hidden Treasure

85

unambiguously located in Ethiopia; on other occasions he had
been located in Ethiopia but spoken of as the ruler of the ‘Indies’;
and sometimes he had been located in India itself - or elsewhere
in the far east. Behind all this confusion, however, there seemed
to be no doubt that the real Prester John, the source of all the
myth-making, must all along have been the ruler of Ethiopia the only non-European Christian kingdom that had existed
anywhere in the world in medieval times, and therefore the only
model that Wolfram could possibly have drawn on when he had
talked of an ‘India’ being ruled by ‘Prester John’, the Christian
son of Fierfiz and Rapanse de Schoye.
For a final and hopefully definitive word I turned to the
Encyclopaedia Britannica which observed:
,

It is not improbable

that from a very early date the title

‘Prester John’ was assigned to the Abyssinian king,

though for a time this identification was overshadowed by
the prevalence of the Asiatic legend. At the bottom of the
double allocation there was, no doubt, that confusion of
Ethiopia with India which is as old as Virgil or perhaps
older.

56

Significantly for my purposes, the Encyclopaedia concluded

its

entry with a reference to the exchange of letters between the

Pope and Prester John that, as noted earlier, had taken place in
the second half of the twelfth century:

However vague may have been the ideas of Pope
Alexander III respecting the geographical position of the
potentate whom he addressed from Venice in 1177, the
only real person to whom the letter can have been sent
was the king of Abyssinia. Let it be observed that the
‘honourable persons of the monarch’s kingdom’ whom
the leech Philip had met with in the East must have been
the representatives of some real power, and not of a
phantom. It must have been a real king who professed to
an altar at Jerusalem.
desire ... the assignation of
Moreover we know that the Ethiopic Church did long possess a
57
chapel and altar in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre
.

.

.

86

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

Indeed so. In fact, as I was soon able to ascertain, the chapel and
the altar had first been granted to Ethiopia in the year 1189- and
not by the Pope (who by then was no longer in a position to
distribute such favours) but by the Muslim general Saladin who
had wrested Jerusalem from the hands of the Crusaders in 1187.

Most important of all,

these special privileges in the Holy

Sepulchre had been obtained for the Ethiopian Orthodox
Church as a result of a direct appeal to Saladin by no lesser
person than the King of Ethiopia himself. 58
These events had taken place just a decade before unknown
stonemasons in northern France had left enigmatic representations of the Holy Grail, of the Ark of the Covenant, and of an
Ethiopian Queen of Sheba in the north porch of Chartres
cathedral - and also just a decade before Wolfram von
Eschenbach had begun to write his Parzival. It seemed to me,
moreover, that such coincidences were unlikely to be just
coincidences. On the contrary, I now felt that the circumstantial

evidence

very

strongly

supported

my

hypothesis

that

the

Chartres sculptures and Wolfram’s remarkable narrative poem

had been explicitly created to serve as esoteric treasure maps.
And, .though not actually marked with an ‘X’, there seemed to be
little doubt that the spot identified by these maps as the hiding
place of the treasure could only be Ethiopia - the land of Prester

John, the land that had provided the last resting place of the
fictional Holy Grail, and thus (if my theory was correct) the land
in which the Ark of the Covenant, the real object that the Grail
symbolized, would be found.
Now, however, other questions presented themselves:

• How, in the late twelfth century, could information
that the Ark might rest in Ethiopia possibly have
reached a German poet and a group of French
iconographers?

• What connected the former to the latter? - for they
must have been connected in some way if they had both
produced works of art encoding the same message.
• Finally, why should anyone have chosen to express the
secret of the Ark’s location in a story and in sculptures?
I had already concluded that this might have been done

A Map to Hidden Treasure

87

to ensure transmission of the secret to future generations.

At the same time, however, the code used - particularly
by Wolfram - had been exceptionally difficult to crack. I
myself, with all the research resources of the twentieth

century at my disposal, had only got as far as I had

because I had been to Axum and had thus been
predisposed to accept that the Ark might be in Ethiopia.
In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, however, that
advantage should not have been available to anyone.
From this it followed that the hidden message ofParzival
could not have been decoded in the medieval period at all
- unless there had been people with access to some very
special and privileged knowledge. Since there would have
been no point in creating a code that no one could crack,
it seemed to me logical to assume that such people must
have existed. But who could they have been?

one group of Europeans who fitted the bill perfectly.
As part of the Crusading army of occupation they had maintained
a massive presence in Jerusalem in the twelfth century: they had
been there in 1145 when the Prester John legends had first
begun to circulate, and they had still been there in 1177 when
envoys of the King of Ethiopia had visited the Holy City seeking
an altar in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. Direct contact
between Ethiopians and members of this European group would
therefore have been perfectly possible.
The group in question was, moreover, highly secretive and
made regular use of codes and ciphers in its far-flung international communications. It was, in addition, a group that had
been involved with the evolution and dissemination of Gothic
architecture in Europe (and quite specifically with the architecture and iconography of Chartres cathedral). Finally, and most
importantly, it was a group that Wolfram von Eschenbach had
several times mentioned by name - a name that I had also come
across in connection with the curious Grail cup that the sculptors
of the north porch of Chartres cathedral had placed in the left
hand of their imposing statue of the priest-king Melchizedek 59
(which, incidentally, was almost the only depiction of
60
Melchizedek in the whole of medieval Europe ).
I did find

88

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

What then was the name of this strangely influential, powerful
and widely travelled group?
Its full and formal title was the ‘Poor Knights of Christ and of
61
- but its members were better known
the Temple of Solomon’
simply as ‘Templars’, or as Knights Templar. It was, fundamentally, a religious order, an order of warrior monks, and throughout
much of the twelfth century it had its headquarters in Jerusalem
on the site of Solomon’s Temple - the same site from which the
Ark of the Covenant had inexplicably vanished in Old Testament
times.

i

Ethiopian church painting showing King Solomon
and the Queen of Sheba. According to Ethiopian tradition
their son stole the Ark of the Covenant from the Temple
in Jerusalem and brought it to Ethiopia.

2 This painting, from Israel, depicts the veneration

of the Ark of the Covenant in Old Testament times.
Regarded as the sign and the seal of God’s presence
on earth, the Ark was the most sacred relic of the
ancient Judaic faith.

:

3

i >?:£

Main group of stelae at Axum.

4 Section of the fallen stele. At 500 tonnes in weight
and more than 100 feet tall, it was the largest
single piece of stone ever quarried in the ancient
world.

5

According to Axumite traditions the powers of the Ark
of the Covenant were used to raise up this towering
stele. It stands 70 feet tall and weighs 300 tonnes.

6 Top left

:

An Ethiopian painting

depicting the late Emperor Haile
Selassie, deposed in 1974.

A

rebel wall poster showing
7 Above
the brutality of the Emperor’s
:

successor, President Mengistu.
8 Bottom right Falasha artefacts
:

portraying the supposed bedroom

scene between Solomon and
Sheba. Haile Selassie claimed to
be the 225th direct-line descendant
of this union.
9 Bottom left Falasha market woman.
:

io In one of the island churches on Lake Tana
a Christian priest stands guard at the doorway
to the Holy of Holies.

ii

Chartres Cathedral,
France. One of the
earliest and finest

examples of the
Gothic style of
architecture that

blossomed suddenly
and mysteriously in
the twelfth century

AD.

12

Sculpture of

Melchizedek,
priest-king of

ancient Israel, in
the north porch of

Chartres Cathedral.

According to some
authorities the cup
in his hand is the
Holy Grail and the
object contained

within it is a stone.

13

The Queen of Sheba (central of the three figures),
her Ethiopian slave at her feet,
in the north porch of Chartres Cathedral.

14

Tableau in the north porch of Chartres Cathedral
depicting the removal, to some unstated destination,

of the Ark of the Covenant - which is shown
placed upon an ox-cart.

15

A section of the strange inscription
beneath the Ark tableau.

Chapter 5

White Knights, Dark
Continent

According to Emma Jung, analyst, lecturer and wife of the
eminent psychiatrist Carl Gustav Jung, the way in which the
literary genre of the Holy Grail appeared at the end of the twelfth
century was both sudden and surprising. In an authoritative study
of the Grail legend (which she undertook on behalf of the Jung
Foundation) she argued that something of great significance
must have lain behind this abrupt and dramatic materialization.
Indeed she went so far as to suggest that in Chretien de Troyes’s
Conte du Graal and Wolfram’s Parzival - the first two exemplars
of the genre - it was almost ‘as if a subterranean watercourse had
been tapped’. What might that ‘subterranean watercourse’ have
been?
The answer, I thought, lay in the period of history in which the
Grail romances began to circulate. This, after all, was the era of
the Crusades - an era that had brought Europeans into close
contact with Arab and Judaic culture for the first time and that
saw the occupation of Jerusalem by Christian armies for eightyeight years (from ad 1099 until the recapture of the Holy City by
Saladin in 1187). It was in 1182 - the eighty-third year of the
occupation - that Chretien produced his version of the Grail
story. And shortly after the fall of Jerusalem Wolfram von
Eschenbach started work on his own Parzival.
I therefore found it difficult to resist the conclusion that these
early recensions of the Grail romance must have been based on
something that had happened - or on material that had come to
light - during the period that Jerusalem had been under the full
control of European forces. I looked very carefully at the text of
Parzival to see whether there was any evidence to support this
1

90

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

and discovered that Wolfram had on several
occasions made mention of a mysterious source named ‘Kyot’ - a
man, he said, whom he had relied upon heavily for his
information and who fortunately had been:
conjecture

a baptized Christian - otherwise this tale would still be

unknown. No infidel art would avail us to reveal the
nature of the Gral and how one came to know its
secrets.

2

This was by no means the only place in Parzival where the
German poet had hinted that there might have been more to his
Grail than at first met the eye. I was already satisfied that this
‘something more’ could well have been the Ark of the Covenant the real object that lay behind the beautiful fictional symbol. Now
as I studied the widely scattered references to ‘Kyot’ it occurred
to me that this shadowy figure, whose identity was never clarified,
could have been the source who had introduced Wolfram to the
secret of the Ark’s hiding place in Ethiopia. Referred to at one
point as ‘Kyot, who sent us the authentic tale’, 3 he was clearly
very important. But who was he?
There were few obvious clues in Parzival itself. Here Kyot was
spoken of as a ‘Master’ 4 and there it was suggested that his
mother tongue had been French. 5 But beyond such hints there
was very little to go on. I therefore turned to the literary scholars
and found that several of them had identified Kyot quite
specifically with a twelfth -century French poet, Guyot de
Provins, who had made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem shortly before
6
the recapture of the Holy City by the Saracens - and who had
also been attached for a while to the court of the Holy Roman

Emperor Frederick Barbarossa. 7
This latter fact caught my eye because I knew that Frederick like Wolfram - had been a German by birth (before his election
8
as Emperor in 1152 he had been Duke of Swabia ). And I also
knew (see previous chapter) that this same Frederick had been
one of the two monarchs specifically named amongst the various
Christian kings to whom the ‘letter of Prester John’ had been
addressed in the year 1165.
Investigating further I then learned something else -

White Knights, Dark Continent

91

something that turned out to be of major importance: Guyot/Kyot

had been

closely associated with the Knights

according to

Templar 9 who,

Emma Jung’s study, 'were considered to be the

guardians of Solomon’s Temple’.

10
I

also knew that it was from

Solomon’s Temple that the Ark of the Covenant had mysteriously
disappeared in Old Testament times. I was therefore excited to
discover that, in Parzival, Wolfram had described the guardians ofthe
11
Grail as 'Templars’
and had referred to them, flatteringly, as:
a noble Brotherhood

.

.

.

who, by force of arms, have

warded off men from every land, with the result that the
Gral has been revealed only to those who have been
summoned to Munsalvaesche to join the Gral
12
Company.

Were Wolfram’s 'Templars’ the same as the famous military
order of that name?

found that the word translated into English as 'Templars’
13
had, in the Middle High German of Parzival been Templeis
Amongst the scholars there was some debate about what exactly
had been meant by this. The consensus, however, was that the
term was 'an obvious variant of the regular forms templarius
templier Eng. Templar 4 and that Wolfram’s 'Order of Knighthood dedicated to the service of the Gral’ could therefore be
15
'identified with the order of the Knights Templar’.
I then remembered that one of the guidebooks I had used on
my visit to Chartres cathedral had spoken of 'Wolfram von
Eschenbach, who is said to have been a Templar - though there
16
On further investigation I was able to
is no proof of this’.
establish that there had indeed been persistent rumours to this
17
effect.
I also learned that several well respected scholars had
suggested that the German poet might himself have paid a visit to
I

,

.

,

" 1

,

the Holy Land whilst writing Parzival

18

Digging for hidden treasure?
had been intrigued by Emma Jung’s assertion that the Templars
in Wolfram’s time 'were considered to be the guardians of
Solomon’s Temple’. I had not understood why this should have
I

9

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

92

However, when I began to research the order, I
discovered that it had derived its official title (‘The Poor Knights
of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon’) from the fact that its
Jerusalem headquarters had been located on the summit of
Mount Moriah - where Solomon’s Temple had stood until its
destruction by the Babylonians in 587 bc. That Temple had
been built in the tenth century bc and its explicit - indeed its only
- purpose had been to serve, as the Bible put it, as ‘an house of
19
rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord’.
By identifying themselves with Solomon’s Temple, therefore,
it seemed to me that there was a very real sense in which the
knights had also identified themselves with the Ark of the
Covenant. And my feeling that this was so strengthened as I
began to investigate the curious history of the order.
The Templars, I learned, had been founded by nine French
noblemen who had made their way to the Holy Land in ad 1 1 1
- twenty years after Jerusalem had been captured and occupied
by the European powers. The twelfth-century historian, Archbishop William of Tyre, noted that ‘foremost and most distinguished’ amongst these nine men ‘were the venerable Hugh de
2°
Payens and Godfrey de St Omer.’
On checking further I discovered something interesting.
Hugh de Payens, who was in fact the first Grand Master of the
21
Order, had been born in the village of Payens, eight miles north
22
of the city of Troyes in the old French county of Champagne.
Moreover it seemed that the nine founders were all from the
same region. 23 In this there were several coincidences:

been

1

so.

Chartres, with its great cathedral, had - in both the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries - been a dominion of

the Counts of Champagne.
2

24

One of the original nine knights, Andre de Montbard
(who later became the fifth Grand Master), was an
uncle of Saint Bernard of Clairvaux 25 - who was
himself a native of Champagne. This enormously
influential cleric had taken a special interest both in
26
Gothic architecture and in the Grail romances.

3

The city of Troyes, so close to the birthplace of Hugh
de Payens, the first Templar Grand Master, was also

White Knights, Dark Continent

93

the home of Chretien de Troyes, the ‘inventor' of the

Holy Grail.
4

Hugh de Payens was a cousin of the Count of
Champagne, 27 and, in the year 1 1 25 the Count of
,

Champagne joined the Templars.
5

28

When Chretien de Troyes rose to prominence rather
later in the twelfth century his principal patron was the

Countess of Champagne. 29

Noting this string of coincidences with some interest, I went on to
learn more about the early history of the Templars.
There was much that was strange. Perhaps strangest of all,
however, was the way in which the nine original knights were
received by King Baldwin I ofJerusalem in 1 1 19. As soon as they
had arrived in the Holy City they told him that they wanted to
30
establish their headquarters on the Temple Mount - where the
monarch had recently converted the Al-Aqsa Mosque to serve as
his own royal palace. Rather astonishingly he complied at once
with their request, giving them, for their exclusive use, a large
part of the former mosque and its outbuildings immediately
adjacent to the famous ‘Dome of the Rock’, which marked the
31
site where Solomon’s Temple had once stood.
Thereafter, like latter-day archaeologists with an important
dig to complete, the knights lived, ate, slept and worked on this

uniquely precious site: indeed for almost seven years after their
arrival they rarely left it and adamantly refused admission to any
outside party. In public pronouncements they had declared that
their mission in the Holy Land was to ‘to keep the road from the

coast to Jerusalem free from bandits ’.

32

1

could find no evidence,

however, to suggest that they took any steps to fulfil this mission
during those first seven years of their existence; on the contrary,
as one authority put it, ‘the new Order apparently did very little’
in this period. 33 Besides, simple logic suggested that nine men
could hardly have protected anybody on a highway almost fifty
miles long - and their number stayed at nine until they were

Count of Champagne in 1125. Moreover, the
members of an older and far larger military order - the Knights
of Saint John - were already doing the job of protecting pilgrims
when the Templars arrived. 34
joined by the

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

94

*

could only conclude, therefore, that Hugh de Payens and his
colleagues must have had some other, undeclared, purpose. As
I

noted above, they largely confined themselves to the precincts of
the Temple Mount during the first seven years of their sojourn in
Jerusalem - and this suggested very strongly that their real
motive must have had to do with that very special site.
From the beginning their behaviour was secretive and I found,
as a result, that there was no really hard evidence about what they
had been up to there. It seemed at least possible, however, that
they might have been looking for something, and this suspicion
deepened when I learned that they had indeed used their
occupancy of the Temple Mount to conduct quite extensive
excavations.

Because the Temple Mount today contains the third and
fourth most sacred sites of Islam - the Dome of the Rock and the
Al-Aqsa Mosque - modern archaeologists have never been
permitted to work there. In recent years, however, Israeli teams
have operated freely immediately to the south of the Mount, and
there they found the exit-point of a tunnel which they identified
as having being dug by the Templars in the twelfth century 35 In
.

their official report the archaeologists stated:

The tunnel leads inward for a distance of about thirty
metres from the southern wall before being blocked by
pieces of stone and debris. We know that it continues
further, but we had made it a hard-and-fast rule not to
excavate within the bounds of the Temple Mount, which
is

currently under Moslem jurisdiction, without first

acquiring the permission of the appropriate Moslem
authorities. In this case they permitted us only to measure

and photograph the exposed section of the tunnel, not to
conduct an excavation of any kind. Upon concluding this
work ... we sealed up the tunnel’s exit with stones 36
.

And that was all that was known, or could be said, about the
Templar tunnel. The archaeologists had only been able to
confirm that it continued further than they themselves had been
allowed to go. Extending inwards from the southern wall,
however, I realized that it might well have penetrated into the

White Knights, Dark Continent

95

very heart of the sacred precincts, quite possibly passing directly

beneath the Dome of the Rock a hundred or so metres to the
north of the Al-Aqsa Mosque.
The Dome of the Rock, I discovered, was so named because
within it lay a huge stone, known to the Jews as the Shetiyyah
(literally the

‘Foundation’). When the Temple of Solomon had

been erected on this exact spot in the mid-qoos bc, the Ark of the
Covenant had been placed on the Shetiyyah which had formed
the floor of the Holy of Holies. 37 Then, in 587 bc, the Temple
had been destroyed by the Babylonians and most of the
population of Jerusalem had been carried off into exile. There
was no evidence, however, to suggest that the conquerors had
also carried off the Ark; on the contrary, it appeared to have
,

vanished into thin air. 38

Subsequently a legend began to circulate which provided a
possible explanation for what had happened - an explanation that
was accepted by most Jews. According to this legend, only
moments before the Babylonian looters had burst into the Holy
of Holies, the sacred relic had been hidden away in a sealed and
secret cavern directly beneath the Shetiyyah 39
Expressed as it was in a variety of Talmudic and Midrashic
scrolls, and in the popular apocalypse known as the ‘Vision of
Baruch’ 40 - all of which were still very much in circulation in
Jerusalem in the twelfth century ad - it occurred to me that the
Templars might easily have learned the details of this intriguing
legend. Moreover, with a little further research, I was able to
establish that they could well have done so some years before
1 1
19 - the date of their official arrival in Jerusalem. Hugh de
Payens, the founder of the order, had made a pilgrimage to the
Holy Land in 1104 in the company of the Count of
Champagne. 41 The two men had then returned to France and
.

were known to have been together there in m3. Three years
43
and then
later Hugh went back to the Holy Land alone
returned once more - this time to gather together the eight
knights who travelled with him in 1119 and who formed the
42

nucleus of the Templar order.
The more I thought about this sequence of events the more
likely it seemed to me that Hugh and the Count of Champagne
could, on their 1104 pilgrimage, have heard of the startling

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

96

%

Ark of the Covenant might lie concealed
somewhere within the Temple Mount. If so, I speculated, then
was it not also probable that they could have formulated a plan to
possibility that the

try to

recover the sacred relic?

And did this not explain the

determined manner in which the nine knights had taken control
of the Temple Mount in 1119 - and also the many other
curiosities of their behaviour in the early years of the order’s
existence?

found tangential support for this conjecture in Emma Jung’s
authoritative study of the Grail legend. There, in an excursus, the
psychoanalyst argued that the European occupation ofjerusalem
in the twelfth century had been inspired, at least in part, by a
belief that some puissant, sacred and incalculably precious relic
lay concealed in that city. As she commented:
I

This deeply-rooted concept of hidden treasure
contributed to the fact that the summons to liberate the

Holy Sepulchre awakened a resounding echo [and]
imparted [an] inflammatory motive power to the Crusades

- if it did not actually cause them. 44
There could have been no treasure more precious or more
sacred than the lost Ark of the Covenant - which, in a century
that was unusually obsessed with the recovery of religious
relics,

45

could well have looked

like

the ultimate prize.

It

seemed to me not just possible, but actually highly
probable, that Hugh de Payens and his backer the Count of
Champagne could indeed have been motivated by a desire to find
the Ark - and that they could have established the Templars, and
taken control of the Temple Mount, in order to achieve this goal.
therefore

If so, however, then they failed in their objective. In the twelfth

century, as one expert put it, ‘the asset value of a famous relic was
prodigious’.

46

Possession of a relic as uniquely significant as the

Ark of the Covenant would, in addition, have brought enormous
power and prestige to its owners. From this it followed, that if the
Templars had found the Ark, they would certainly have brought
it back to Europe in triumph. Since that had not happened it
seemed to me quite safe to conclude that they had not found it.

White Knights, Dark Continent

97

Yet rumours persisted that they had found something in their
seven years of intensive digging on the Temple Mount. None of
these rumours had any academic authority whatsoever - but
some were intriguing. According to one mystical work, which
attempted to address what the Templars had really been up to in
Jerusalem between 1119 and 1126:

The real task of the nine knights was to carry out
research in the area in order to obtain certain relics and

manuscripts which contained the essence of the secret
traditions of Judaism and ancient Egypt, some of which

probably went back to the days of Moses

There is no
doubt that [they] fulfilled this particular mission and that
the knowledge obtained from their finds was taught in the
oral tradition of the Order’s

.

.

.

.

.

.

secret circles. 47

No documentary proof was offered to back up this attractive
assertion. In the same source, however, I was interested to note a

name that I had come across several times before in my research
- Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, who here was said (again without
any supporting evidence)
Jerusalem.

to

have sent the nine knights to

48

I already

knew that Bernard had been the nephew of one of the

nine founder knights. I was also aware that he had joined the
Cistercian order in 1112, that he had become an abbot by
1115 49 and that he had risen to a position of considerable

prominence in French religious circles by 1119 when the first
Templars had arrived in Jerusalem. I therefore thought that it
would be most unwise to dismiss out of hand the possibility that
he might have played some role in the formulation of their
mission. This suspicion intensified considerably when I began to
look into what had happened to the Templars after their first
curious seven years.

A trade-off?
Late in 1126 Hugh de Payens suddenly left Jerusalem and
returned to Europe accompanied by none other than Andre de
Montbard, 50 the uncle of Saint Bernard. The knights arrived in

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

98

France in 1 127 and, in January 1128, participated in what was to
be the most significant event in the early history of the Templars.
That event was the Synod of Troyes, which had been convened
with the explicit objective of procuring the Church’s official
51
backing for the Templar order.
Three things particularly interested me about this important
meeting. First, it took place in the home town of the poet who,
some years later, was to invent the Holy Grail; second, it was
52
presided over by Saint Bernard, in his capacity as its secretary;
and third, during the course of the Synod, it was Bernard himself
who drew up the formal Rule of the Knights Templar that,
henceforth, was to guide the evolution and development of the
order. 53
If

my suspicions were justified, therefore, it seemed that the

original nine knights had initially been preoccupied with their

excavations on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. Whatever else

they might have unearthed there, however, it had become clear to

them by 1 1 26 that they were not going to find the prime object of
their search, the Ark of the Covenant. This realization had made
it necessary for them to consider their future: specifically, having
lost their raison d'etre ,

should they simply cease to exist as an

order, or should they try to forge ahead?

History showed that they had indeed suffered a

crisis

of

identity in 1126, that they had resolved it and decided to forge

ahead, and that they had enlisted the powerful support of Saint

Bernard in this enterprise. At the Synod of Troyes he drew up
their Rule and obtained the full backing of the Church for their
expansion. And thereafter, in a series of sermons and glowing
panegyrics such as De laude novae militae 54 he vigorously
promoted the young order - thus using his own prestige and
,

influence to guarantee its success.

The results were spectacular. New recruits flocked in from all
over France and later from many other parts of Europe as well.
Donations of land and money were received from wealthy
patrons, and political power quickly followed. By the late twelfth

century the order had become phenomenally rich, was operating
a

sophisticated

international

banking system, 55 and owned

properties throughout the known world.

And all this, in a sense, it owed to the intervention of Saint

White Knights, Dark Continent

99

Bernard in 1128- and to his continued solidarity and support in
the years that followed. Had he played this role on behalf of the
Templars purely out of a sense of altruism? Or had they perhaps
given him something in return?
Remembering that the 1130s were the decade in which
Gothic architecture had suddenly and mysteriously burst upon
the scene in France, remembering that Bernard had been a
prime mover in the dissemination of the Gothic formula, and
remembering too the persistent rumours that the Templars had
gained access in Jerusalem to some deep and ancient source of
knowledge, I could not help but wonder if this had been the
trade-off. To be sure, the knights had failed to find the Ark of the
Covenant. But what if, in their excavations on the Temple
Mount, they had unearthed scrolls, manuscripts, theorems or
blueprints relating to Solomon’s Temple itself? What if these
discoveries had included the lost architectural secrets of
geometry, proportion, balance and harmony that had been
known to the builders of the pyramids and other great monuments of antiquity? And what if the Templars had shared these
secrets with Saint Bernard in return for his enthusiastic backing
for their order?

These speculations were not entirely without foundation. On
the contrary, one of the oddities of the Templars was the fact that
they had been great architects. In 1 139, Pope Innocent II (whose
candidacy, incidentally, had also been enthusiastically backed by
56
Saint Bernard ), granted the order a unique privilege - the right
57 This was a privilege that they
to build their own churches.
subsequently exercised to the full: beautiful places of worship,
often circular in plan like the

Temple Church in London,

became a hallmark of Templar activities.

The knights also excelled in military architecture and their
castles in Palestine were exceptionally well designed and virtually

impregnable. Foremost amongst these imposing fortresses was
Adit (Chateau Pelerin or Castle Pilgrim) which, I discovered,

had been built in the year 1 2 1 8 by the fourteenth Grand Master
58 in whose name was
of the Templars, William of Chartres
revealed yet another connection to the great Gothic cathedral.
Standing to the south of Haifa on a spur of land surrounded on
three sides by the sea, Adit in its heyday was well supplied with

ioo

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

orchards, fresh water, and vegetable gardens and even possessed
its

own harbour and ship -yard together with a jetty two hundred

feet long. Often besieged by the Saracens but never captured, it

had been capable of sheltering as many as four thousand people.
Its massive walls, resting on unusually deep foundations, were
more than ninety feet high and sixteen feet thick 59 - and were so
well made that large sections of them still survive intact. The site
was thoroughly excavated by the archaeologist C. N. Johns in
1932. He concluded that the skills of the Templar architects and
masons had been astonishingly advanced by comparison with the
norm in the Middle Ages and had, indeed, been ‘exceptional’
even by modern standards.

60

The Templars also built extensively in Jerusalem where they
continued to maintain their headquarters on the Temple Mount
until the

Holy City was recaptured by the Muslim general

Saladin in

1187.

learned

I

that

a

German monk named

Theoderic had made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem in 1174 - at
which time he reported that all the buildings within the precincts
of the Dome of the Rock were still ‘in the possession of the

Templar soldiers’.

61

He added:

They are garrisoned in these and other buildings
belonging to them
Below them they have stables once
erected by King Solomon
with vaults, arches, and
roofs of many varieties
According to our estimation
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

they will hold ten thousand horses with grooms.

62

In fact the ‘stables’ had not been erected by King Solomon, but

dated back to the reign of Herod the Great (around the time of

The vaults, arches and roofs, however, had been the
work of the Templars themselves, who greatly extended these
subterranean halls and who were the first and only people to use
Christ).

them to accommodate horses. 63
Theoderic’s eyewitness account of the Temple
1174 continued with these words:

Mount in

On the other side of the palace [i.e. the Al-Aqsa Mosque]
the Templars have built a new house, whose height,

length and breadth, and all its cellars and refectories,

White Knights, Dark Continent

ioi

staircase and roof, are far beyond the custom of this land.

Indeed its roof is so high that, if I were to mention how high
it is,

those who listen would hardly believe me. 64

The ‘new house’ that Theoderic had referred to in 1174 was,
unfortunately, knocked down in the 1950s during some
renovations undertaken on the Temple Mount by the Muslim
authorities. The German monk’s testimony was, however,
valuable in itself - and what I found most valuable about it was its
breathless tone. Clearly he had regarded the Templars’ architec-

almost supernaturally advanced and had been
particularly impressed by the soaring roofs and arches that they
tural skills as

had

built.

Reviewing

his

statements

I

thought

it

accidental that soaring roofs and arches had also

from
been the
far

distinguishing features of the Gothic architectural formula as

expressed at Chartres and other French cathedrals in the twelfth
century - cathedrals that

I

knew were regarded by some

observers as ‘scientifically ... far beyond what can be allowed for
in the knowledge of the epoch’.

65

And this brought me back again to Saint Bernard of Clairvaux.
Looking more thoroughly into what was known about his life and
ideas, I was able to confirm my earlier impression that his
influence on the iconography of the Gothic cathedrals had been
massive, but indirect, taking the form mainly of groups of
sculptures and of stained -glass windows that had been inspired
66
Indeed, in
by his sermons and writings, often after his death.
his lifetime, Bernard had frequently opposed the unnecessary
proliferation of images and had stated: ‘There must be no
decoration, only proportion.’

67

This emphasis on proportion, harmony and balance in
architecture was, I knew, the key to the strange magic of Gothic
architecture and, as I became more familiar with Saint Bernard’s
thinking, I realized that it was in this area that his influence on the

design of Chartres and other cathedrals had been most profound. In those great edifices, the introduction ot a number of
ribbed vaulting, ogive
arches and flying buttresses had enabled the builders to use
geometrical perfection to give expression to complex religious

remarkable technical innovations

like

ideas. Indeed, in a very real sense, it seemed that architecture and

102

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
%

had merged in twelfth-century Gothic to form a new
synthesis. This synthesis had been summed up by Saint Bernard
himself when he had asked ‘What is God?’ - and had then replied
to his own rhetorical question with these surprising words: ‘He is
68
length, width, height and depth/
Gothic architecture, as I already knew, had been born at
Chartres cathedral with the start of construction work on the
north tower in 1 134. This, I now learned, was no accident. In the
years immediately prior to 1134 Bernard had cultivated a
particularly close friendship with Geoffrey the Bishop of
faith

Chartres,

69

inspiring him with an ‘uncommon enthusiasm’ for

the Gothic formula

70

and holding ‘almost daily negotiations with

the builders themselves’.

71

Interesting though it was in itself, the great significance of this

piece of information for my purposes lay in the fact that ‘the years

immediately prior to 1134’ were also the years immediately after
the Synod of Troyes, at which Saint Bernard had obtained
official Church recognition for the Order of the Poor Knights of
Christ and of the Temple of Solomon. Historians had never been
able to account adequately for the sudden way in which Gothic
architecture had emerged in France in the 1130s. But my earlier
speculation that the Templars might have had a hand in it now
looked increasingly plausible. Reviewing all the evidence I had
gathered I felt satisfied that they could indeed have unearthed on
the Temple Mount some repository of ancient knowledge
concerning the science of building, and that they could have
passed on what they had learned to Saint Bernard in return for
his support.

Moreover Templar interest in the Ark of the Covenant, and
the Templar connections with Wolfram and with Chartres, also
rather neatly tied together the two cryptic ‘maps’ that I believed I

had identified (one carved in stone in the north porch of the
cathedral, the other encoded in the plot of Parzival). Those
‘maps’ had appeared to suggest that Ethiopia was the last resting
place of the Ark. The question I now needed to address,
therefore, was this: how could the Templars have come to the
conclusion that the sacred relic (which they had failed to find
after seven years of digging in Jerusalem) had in fact been
removed to Ethiopia? What could have led them to think this way?

White Knights, Dark Continent

103

A possible answer, I discovered, lay in Jerusalem itself- where
an exiled Ethiopian prince had sojourned for a quarter of a
century before returning to his homeland to claim his kingdom in
1 1 85.

write

72

Not much more than a decade later Wolfram began to
his Parzival and work started on the north porch of

Chartres cathedral.

An Ethiopian prince in Jerusalem
The name of the prince who had spent so long in exile in
Jerusalem was Lalibela. I became interested in him because of
the ietter of Prester John' referred to in the last chapter. That
letter had been written in 1165 and I knew that in 1177 Pope
Alexander III had written a letter of his own to ‘Prester John’ in
response to a request from ‘the Prester’s’ emissaries for the
concession of an altar and a chapel in the Church of the Holy
Sepulchre in Jerusalem. According to the Encyclopaedia
Britannica ‘the only real person’ to whom the Pope’s letter could
,

have been sent was the King of Ethiopia. 73

I

had therefore

naturally wondered which king had sat on the Ethiopian throne in

1177.

On researching the matter I had discovered that it had

been a man named Harbay and that the concession requested
had not been granted to him but rather to his successor, Lalibela.
Neither Harbay nor Lalibela had stemmed from the line of
monarchs supposedly descended from King Solomon and the
Queen of Sheba through Menelik I. Instead they had both
belonged to a usurper dynasty known as the Zagwe which had
ruled in Ethiopia from roughly ad 1030 until 1270 when the
Solomonids were finally restored to the throne. 74
This was a period of Ethiopian history about which very little
was known. I was able to confirm, however, that the Solomonic
line had been interrupted around ad 980 and that this coup d'etat
had been the work of a tribal chieftainess named Gudit, who
adhered to the Jewish faith and who seemed to have been
motivated above all else by a desire to obliterate the Christian
religion. At any rate she attacked Axum, razed much of the
ancient city to the ground, and succeeded in killing its Solomonic
emperor. Two of the royal princes were also murdered but a
third escaped with his life and fled to the province of Shoa, far to

1

04

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
%

the south,

where he married and produced children, thus

ensuring the survival of the old dynasty, although in

much

reduced circumstances. 75
Gudit was the head of a large tribal confederation known as the
Agaw - to which the Falashas, the indigenous black Jews of
76
Although it was by no means certain
Ethiopia, also belonged.
that she had left any direct successor, historians accepted that
within fifty years of her death most of northern Ethiopia had been
united under the Zagwe monarchs who, like her, were all of Agaw
extraction.

In its early days this dynasty could - again like Gudit - have

been Jewish. 77 If so, however (and the case was not proved), it
had certainly converted to Christianity well before the birth of
Prince Lalibela - which took place in the ancient mountain town
of Roha, in what is now the province of Wollo, around the year
1140.

The younger half-brother of King Harbay, Lalibela appeared
to have been destined for greatness from the moment when his
mother saw a dense swarm of bees surrounding him as he lay in
an old belief that the animal world could
foretell the future of important personages, the legends said that
she 'had been seized by the spirit of prophecy and had cried out
‘Lalibela’ - meaning, literally,
‘the
bees recognize his

his crib. Recalling

sovereignty’.

78

Thus the prince received his name. The prophecy that it
expressed caused Harbay to fear for the safety of his throne to

such an extent that he tried to have Lalibela murdered while he
was still a babe in arms. This first attempt failed, but persecutions
of one kind or another continued for several years, culminating in
the administration of a deadly poison that plunged the young
prince into a cataleptic sleep. Ethiopian legends said that the

stupor lasted for three days, during which time Lalibela was
transported by angels to the first, second and third Heavens.

There he was addressed directly by the Almighty who told him to
have no anxiety as to his life or future sovereignty. A Purpose had
been mapped out for him, for which reason he had been
anointed. After awaking from his trance he was to flee Ethiopia
and seek refuge in Jerusalem. He could rest secure, however,
that when the time was right he would return as king to Roha, his

White Knights, Dark Continent

105

Moreover it was his destiny that he would build a
number of wonderful churches there, the like of which the world
had never seen before. God then gave Lalibela detailed instructions as to the method of construction that was to be used, the
form that each of the churches was to take, their locations and
even their interior and exterior decorations. 79
Legend and history coincided at this point in a single well
documented fact: Lalibela did indeed suffer a long period of exile
in Jerusalem while his half-brother Harbay continued to occupy
80
the throne of Ethiopia.
This exile, I learned, began around the
year 1160- when Lalibela would have been about twenty years
old - and ended in 1 185 when he returned in triumph to his own
81
country, deposed Harbay and proclaimed himself king.
From that date onwards there were reliable chronicles of his
82
rule, which lasted until ad 121 1.
He made his capital at Roha,
where he had been born and which was now renamed ‘Lalibela’
birthplace.

83

There, perhaps in fulfilment of his legendary
vision, he almost immediately set about building eleven spectacular monolithic churches - churches that were literally carved
out of solid volcanic rock (I myself had visited those churches in
1983 some weeks after my trip to Axum, and had found that they
were still places of living worship).
Neither did Lalibela forget his twenty-five-year sojourn in the
Holy Land - many of the features of which he attempted to
reproduce in Roha-Lalibela. For example, the river running
through the town was renamed ‘Jordan’; one of the eleven
churches -Beta Golgotha- was specifically designed to symbolize
the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem; and a nearby hill
was called Debra Zeit (‘Mount of Olives’) so that it might
in his honour.

represent the place where Christ was captured.

84

Not content with making his capital a kind of ‘New Jerusalem’,
the Ethiopian king also sought, throughout his reign, to maintain
close links with Jerusalem

itself.

There was,

I

discovered,

nothing particularly new about this. Since the late fourth century
ad clergy from the Ethiopian Orthodox Church had been

permanently stationed in the Holy City. 85 It had been a desire to
increase and consolidate this presence that had led to Harbay’s
request to Pope Alexander III to grant the concession of an altar
and a chapel in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. Nothing had

io6

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
*

come of that - other than the Pope’s rather tentative letter sent in
1177 in reply to Harbay’s initial approach. A decade later,
however, there had been two important developments: in 1185
Lalibela had seized the Ethiopian throne, and in 1187 Saladin
had driven the Crusaders out of the Holy City and had forced
Jerusalem’s Ethiopian community, together with other Eastern
Christians, to flee to Cyprus.

86

The royal chronicles showed that Lalibela had been deeply
disturbed by this turn of events and, in 1189, his envoys had
managed to persuade Saladin to allow the Ethiopians to return

and also to grant them, for the first time, a key site of their own the Chapel of the Invention of the Cross, in the Church of the
Holy Sepulchre. 87 Subsequently, in relatively modern times,
these privileges had again been lost; in consequence, I learned,
Abyssinian pilgrims were now obliged to make their devotions on
the roof of the chapel - where they had established a
88
monastery.
They also still possessed two other churches in
Jerusalem as well as a substantial Patriarchate situated in the
heart of the Old City within a few minutes’ walk of the Church of
the Holy Sepulchre.
Both in terms of foreign and domestic policy, and also in terms
of architectural expression and spiritual development, Lalibela’s
reign had represented the zenith of the Zagwe dynasty’s powers
and achievements. After his death a steep decline set in. Finally,
in ad 1270, his grandson Naakuto Laab was persuaded to
abdicate in favour of Yekuno

Amlak - a monarch claiming

Solomonic descent. 89 Thereafter, until Haile Selassie was
deposed during the communist revolution of 1974, all but one of
Ethiopia’s emperors had belonged to the royal line that traced its
heritage back, through Menelik I, to King Solomon ofJerusalem.

A pattern of coincidences
Reviewing what I had learned about Lalibela’s illustrious reign, I
realized that

it

fitted perfectly into the

beguiling pattern of

coincidences that I had already identified as being associated
with the Crusades, with the Templars, and with the twelfth
century:

White Knights, Dark Continent

107

• At the very beginning of the twelfth century (or more
properly in 1099, the last year of the eleventh century)

Jerusalem was seized by the Crusaders.
• In 1 1 19 the nine founding knights of the Templar
order - all French noblemen - arrived in Jerusalem
and took up residence on the site of the original
Temple of Solomon.
• In 1 128 Saint Bernard of Clairvaux won official
church recognition for the Templars at the Synod of
Troyes.

• In 1134 work started on the north tower of Chartres
cathedral, the first-ever example of Gothic
architecture/*

• In 1145 the name ‘Prester John’ was first heard in
Europe.
• In 1160 Prince Lalibela, the future monarch of
Ethiopia, arrived in Jerusalem as a political exile fleeing
the persecutions of his half-brother Harbay (who then
occupied the throne).
• In 1 165 a letter purporting to have been written by
‘Prester John’ and making a series of awe-inspiring
claims about the size of his armies, his wealth and his
power, had been circulated in Europe addressed to
‘various Christian kings’.

• In 1177 Pope Alexander III issued a response to the
above document but, significantly, made reference in it
to another communication that he had received
somewhat later - a request from ‘Prester John’ to be
granted an altar in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre
in Jerusalem. It seemed that this request had been
lodged by ‘the Prester’s’ emissaries who had spoken to
the Pope’s personal physician Philip during a visit that

the latter had made to Palestine. (The ‘Prester John’

who had asked for this concession could only have
been Lalibela’s half-brother Harbay who, in 1177, was
still on the throne of Ethiopia.)
• In 1182 the Holy Grail made its first-ever appearance
in literature (and, for that matter, in history) in an

uncompleted narrative poem by Chretien de Troyes.

io8

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

• In 1 1 85 Prince Lalibela left Jerusalem and returned to
Ethiopia where he successfully deposed Harbay and seized
the throne. Almost immediately thereafter he began
building a group of spectacular rock-hewn churches in his
capital Roha - later renamed ‘Lalibela’ in his honour.

• In 1 1 87 Jerusalem fell to the Muslim forces of Sultan
Saladin and the Crusaders were driven out, along with
members of the Ethiopian community in the Holy Citywho sought temporary refuge in Cyprus. (Some
T emplars also went to Cyprus - indeed, after the fall of
Jerusalem, the knights bought the island which became,
for a while, their headquarters.

90
)

• In 1 1 89 emissaries sent to Saladin by King Lalibela
managed to persuade the Muslim general to allow the
Ethiopians to return to Jerusalem and also to grant them a
privilege that they had never enjoyed before, the same
privilege that Harbay had sought from the Pope in 1 1 77 namely a chapel and altar in the Church of the Holy
Sepulchre.

• Between the years 1195 and 1 200 Wolfram von
Eschenbach began to write Parzival which continued the
%
earlier work done by Chretien de Troyes and which, in
,

the process, transformed the Grail into a Stone,

incorporated many Ethiopic elements into the story, and
specifically mentioned not only ‘Prester John’ but also the

Templars.
• At exactly the same time work started on the north porch
of Chartres cathedral with its Ethiopic Queen of Sheba,
its Grail (containing a Stone), and its representation of
the Ark of the Covenant.

The Templars, Gothic architecture, the Holy Grail and the
notion that somewhere in the world there existed a powerful

non-European Christian king called ‘Prester John’ had therefore
all been the products of the twelfth century. And in that same
century, just before Parzival was written and the north porch of
Chartres cathedral built, a future Christian king of Ethiopia

- Lalibela - had returned to his homeland to claim his throne
after spending twenty-five years in Jerusalem.

.

White Knights, Dark Continent

109

seemed to me, from everything I had learned, that all these
matters must have been intricately connected by some common
factor that had remained hidden from history, perhaps because it
had been deliberately concealed. Proof positive of a Templar
quest for the lost Ark of the Covenant, first in Jerusalem and then
later in Ethiopia, would provide that hidden but common factor the missing link in the complex chain of inter-related events,
ideas and personalities that I had identified. I knew, at least for
the moment, that I had gone as far as I could with the part of my
investigation that related to Jerusalem. But what about Ethiopia?
Was there really any evidence at all that the Templars might have
gone there to look for the Ark - and that they might subsequently
have arranged for the results of their quest to be encoded by
Wolfram in the arcane symbolism of his ‘Stone called the GraP?
It

‘Those treacherous Templars

The

.

breakthrough came when I received an English
translation of the full text of the letter supposedly written by
Prester John himself to various Christian kings in the year 1165.
Unlike Pope Alexander Ill’s letter to Prester John, written in
1177 (which was a genuine document intended, as I now knew,
for Lalibela’s half-brother Harbay) the 1165 letter was regarded
with great suspicion by scholars. Its date was authentic, but it was
thought most unlikely that it could have been written by anyone
with a real claim to the title ‘Prester John’ - and it was therefore
91
regarded as an elaborate hoax.
As I read it I could understand why. If the writer was to be
first

believed his ‘realms’ contained, amongst other things: ‘wild hares
as big as sheep’; ‘birds called griffins who can easily carry an ox or

a horse into their nest’; ‘horned men who have but one eye in

front and three or four in the back’; ‘other men who have hoofed
legs like horses’; ‘bowmen who from the waist up are men, but

whose lower part is that of a horse’; the fountain of youth; a
turns into
‘sandy sea’ from which ‘every piece of debris
precious stones’; ‘the tree of life’; ‘seven-headed dragons’ - and
.

.

.

92

Just about every mythical beast and object
ever dreamed of, it seemed, was to be found in the land of Prester
so on and so forth.

John. Where exactly this land was located, however, was nowhere

i io

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

specified in the letter - except in the loose reference to the ‘many

quoted in the previous chapter (a reference, as I now
knew, that was more likely to have applied to Ethiopia than to the
subcontinent). Moreover, scattered here and there amongst the
fabulous creatures were other animals that did seem to belong to
the real world: ‘elephants’ and ‘dromedaries’, for example, and
also ‘unicorns’ with ‘a single horn in front’ which sounded very
Indias’

much like rhinoceroses - all the more so since, apparently, they
were sometimes known to ‘kill lions 93
Such details made me wonder whether the writer of the letter
might have been something more than a hoaxer - might, in fact,
have had direct knowledge of Ethiopia (where, of course, camels,
elephants, lions and rhinos were all to be found). My suspicion
that this might have been so deepened when I noticed that
mention was also made of ‘King Alexander of Macedonia’ in a
context that linked him to ‘Gog and Magog 94 This caught my
eye because I remembered that Alexander, Gog and Magog had
been connected in an almost identical manner in a very ancient
’.

’.

Ethiopic manuscript known as the Lefafa Sedek the ‘Bandlet of
,

Righteousness ’, 95 which was supposedly unknown outside
Abyssinia until the nineteenth century.
Another point of interest was that ‘Presterjohn’ claimed in the
letter that his Christian kingdom contained large numbers of
Jews - who seemed to be semi-autonomous and with whom wars
were often fought. Again this had a certain flavour of genuine
Ethiopian conditions: following the tenth-century Jewish uprising by Gudit (which had temporarily overthrown the Solomonic
dynasty) there had in fact been several hundred years of conflict

between Ethiopia’s Jews and Christians 96
.

All in all, therefore, despite the many fantastic and obviously

apocryphal aspects of the letter, I was not disposed to believe that

was entirely an imposture. It seemed to me, furthermore, that
its prime objective might have been to impress and scare the
European powers to whom it was addressed. In this regard I
it

noted in particular the frequent references that it made to the size
of ‘the Prester’s’ armed forces - for example:

We have

.

.

.

forty- two castles, which are the strongest

and most beautiful in the world, and many men to defend

1

White Knights, Dark Continent

1 1

them, to wit ten thousand knights, six thousand

crossbowmen, fifteen thousand archers, and forty thousand
troopers
Whenever we go to war
know that in front of
us there march forty thousand clerics and an equal number
of knights. Then come two hundred thousand men on foot,
not counting the wagons with provisions, and the elephants
and camels which carry arms and ammunition. 97
.

.

.

.

.

.

This was unmistakably fighting talk, but what was most notable
about it was that it was closely tied to something else - specific,
and hostile, mention of the Templars. In a section apparently
intended for the ‘King of France’ the letter suggested:

There are Frenchmen among you, of your lineage and
from your retinue, who hold with the Saracens. You
confide in them and trust in them that they should and
will help you, but they are false and treacherous

.

.

.

may

you be brave and of great courage and, pray, do not forget
98
to put to death those treacherous Templars.
Reviewing this ominous suggestion in the context of the rest of
the bizarre letter I asked myself a question: in the year 1165,
which candidate for the role of ‘Prester John’ could possibly have
had a motive (a) to try to frighten off the European powers in
general by boasting of his own overwhelming military strength,
and (b) to attempt to smear the Knights Templar in particular
and to request that they should be ‘put to death’?
The answer I came up with was Harbay, who, in 1165, had
been the reigning Zagwe monarch of Ethiopia, and who, as I have
already observed, had certainly been the intended recipient of
the letter written to Prester John by Pope Alexander III in 1177.

One of my reasons for pinpointing Harbay as the real author of
the supposedly hoax letter of 1165 was terminological.

I

had

discovered, as my research had progressed, that all the Zagwe

monarchs had favoured the use of the Ethiopic term Jan in their
string of titles. 99 Derived from Jano, a reddish-purple toga worn
only by royalty, the word meant ‘King’ or ‘Majesty’ and might
easily have been confused with ‘John’; indeed it could have been
precisely because of this (coupled with the fact that several of the

.

1 12

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

Zagwe rulers were also priests) that the phrase ‘Prester John’ had
first been coined.

But there was a stronger reason to suspect Harbay. He, after
all, had been a man with a burgeoning political problem in the
year 1 1 65 By then his disaffected half-brother Lalibela (who was
eventually to depose him) had already been in exile in Jerusalem
.

for five years - long enough, I speculated, for him to have got to

know the Templars and to have made friends amongst them.
Perhaps he had even asked the knights to help him to overthrow
Harbay and perhaps Harbay had got wind of this plot.

Such a scenario, I thought, was not entirely implausible. The
slightly later request to the Pope for a concession in the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre (a request presented in Palestine by
‘honourable persons’ of ‘Prester John’s’ kingdom) suggested that

Harbay regularly sent emissaries to Jerusalem; such emissaries,
therefore, could easily have picked up intelligence of a conspiracy
brewing between Lalibela and the Templars in 1 165. If this had
been what had happened then it would undoubtedly go a long
way to explain the strangely menacing suggestion to the King of
France that it might be a good idea if he were to have the
‘treacherous Templars’ (still mainly Frenchmen at that time)
executed forthwith. The ‘letter of Prester John’ - at least
according to this hypothesis - would therefore have been
concocted by Harbay’s agents in Jerusalem as a deliberate
strategy to deter collusion between the

Templars and Prince

Lalibela.

This was obviously an attractive line of reasoning. It was also
dangerously speculative, however, and I would have been
reluctant to follow it any further if I had not found certain
passages in Parzival which seemed to confirm that the Templars
might indeed have entered into precisely the sort of alliance with
Lalibela that Harbay would have feared.

‘Deep into Africa

.

Written some years after Lalibela had forcefully deposed Harbay

from the throne of Ethiopia, Parzival contained a number of
direct references to the Templars - who, as I have already noted,
were depicted as being members of ‘the Grail Company’. 100

White Knights, Dark Continent

1 13

What I found intriguing was the specific suggestion, which
Wolfram repeated

Templars were
occasionally sent on missions overseas - missions that were
highly secretive and that were to do with winning political power.
For example:
several times, that these

Writing was seen on the Gral to the effect that any

Templar whom God should bestow on a distant people
must forbid them to ask his name or lineage, but must
help them gain their rights. When such a question is put
101
to him the people there cannot keep him any longer.
.

.

.

Or similarly:
If a land should lose its lord, and its people see the hand

of God in it and ask for a new lord from the Gral

Company, their prayer is granted
•

out in secret.

T

.

.

.

God sends the men

O2

This was all very interesting, but the passage that really caught
my attention came one page later in a lengthy monologue by a
member of the Grail Company who spoke, amongst other things,
IOS
past the Rohas\
of riding ‘deep into Africa
Scholars, I discovered, had tentatively identified ‘the Rohas’
104
But this
with the Rohitscher Berg in Saangau Styria.
derivation looked completely spurious to me: it was not at all
suggested by a context that had just mentioned Africa and I was
105
I knew
quite unconvinced by the reasons given for it.
something, however, that the Wolfram specialists in universities
in Germany and England could not have been expected to know:
Roha was the old name for a town in the remotest highlands of
Ethiopia - a town now called Lalibela in honour of the great king
who was born there and who made it his capital when he returned
to it in triumph in the year of our Lord 1185. Neither was there
any reason for the experts in medieval German literature to have
been aware that this same Lalibela had spent the previous
quarter of a century in Jerusalem rubbing shoulders with the
.

.

.

knights of a military-religious order whose headquarters stood

on the site of the Temple of Solomon - knights who would have

1 14

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

had a special interest in any contender to the throne of a country
which claimed to possess the lost Ark that the Temple had
originally been built to house. The question that I now needed to
address, therefore, was this: was there any evidence at all to
suggest that Lalibela might have been accompanied by a
contingent of Templars when he returned to Ethiopia in 1185
and deposed Harbay?
I did not think that the answer to this question would be easy to
find. Luckily, however, I had been to the town of Lalibela in 1983
while working on my book for the Ethiopian government, and I
had kept field notes. I therefore studied these notes with great
care.

To my

surprise,

I

almost immediately came

across

something of interest.

On the ceiling of the rock-hewn church of Beta Mariam (yet
another place of worship dedicated to Saint Mary the Mother of
Christ) I had noticed ‘faded red-painted crosses of the Crusader
type’. I had then remarked: ‘These don’t look at all like any of the

normal Ethiopian crosses - check out origins when back in
Addis.’ I had even made a rough sketch of one of these ‘Crusader
crosses’ (which had triangular arms widening outwards). And,
although I could not remember doing so, I had obviously
followed the matter up to some extent: beneath the sketch and in
a different pen I had later added the technical term croix pattee.
What I had not known in 1983 was that the Templars’ emblem
- adopted after the Synod of Troyes had given official recogni106
tion to the order in 1128- had been a red croix pattee
I did
.

know this in 1989, however. Moreover I also knew that the
Templars had been associated throughout their history with the
construction of wonderful churches.

Almost inevitably, further questions began to form in my
mind. By a considerable margin, the eleven rock-hewn
churches of Lalibela were the most architecturally advanced
buildings that Ethiopia had ever known (indeed, in the
considered opinion of UNESCO, they deserved to be ranked
amongst the wonders of the world). 107 Moreover, a certain air
of mystery clung to them: there were other rock-hewn churches
in the country, to be sure, but none were even of a remotely
comparable standard. Indeed, in terms of overall conception, of
workmanship, and of aesthetic expression, the Lalibela

White Knights, Dark Continent

115

monoliths were unique. No expert had been able to suggest
exacdy how they had been built, and there had been persistent

rumours of foreign involvement in their construction. Several
academics had speculated that Indians, or Egyptian Copts, had
been hired as masons by King Lalibela. 108 Ethiopian legends, by
contrast, attributed the work to angels! I now had to ask myself,
however, whether the true artificers of the Lalibela churches
might not have been the Templars.
Certainly, my 1983 field notes painted a picture of a fantastic
architectural complex:

Towering edifices [I had written ], the churches remain
places of living worship eight hundred years after they
were built. It is important to stress, however, that they
were not built at all in the conventional sense, but instead
were excavated and hewn directly out of the solid red
volcanic tuff on which they stand. In consequence, they
seem superhuman - not only in scale, but also in
workmanship and in conception.
Close examination is required before the full extent of
the achievement that they represent can be appreciated.
This is because, like medieval Mysteries, considerable
efforts have been made to cloak their real natures: some
lie almost completely concealed within deep trenches,
while others hide in the open mouths of huge quarried
caves. Connecting them all is a complex and bewildering
labyrinth of tunnels and narrow passageways with offset
crypts, grottoes and galleries - a cool, lichen-enshrouded,
subterranean world, shaded and damp, silent but for the
faint echoes of distant footfalls as priests and deacons go
about their timeless business.
Four of the churches are completely free-standing,
being attached to the surrounding rock only by their
bases. Although their individual dimensions and
configurations are very different, they all take the form of
great hills of stone, precisely sculptured to resemble

normal buildings. They are wholly isolated within the
deep courtyards excavated around them and the most
striking of them is Beta Giorghis (the Church of Saint

1 16

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

George). It rests in majestic isolation at a considerable
distance from all the others. Standing more than forty feet

high in the centre of a deep, almost well-like pit, it has been

hewn both externally and internally to resemble a cross.
Inside there is a faultless dome over the sanctuary and,
throughout, the craftsmanship is superb.

I

concluded my 1983 notes - from which I have copied only the

brief extract above - with the following question:

Setting aside the assistance supposedly provided by
angels, how exactly were Lalibela’s wonders created?

Today, if truth be told, no one really knows: the
techniques that made possible the excavation and
chiselling of stone on so dramatic a scale, and with such
perfection, have long been lost in the mists of history.
In the summer of 1989, looking back at what I had written six

years previously, I was uncomfortably aware of how little those
mists had cleared - and of how much there remained for me to
find out. Intuitively I had a strong feeling that the Templars could

have been involved in the creation of the Lalibela complex. The
fact was, however, that there was really nothing to support this

view other than the red ‘Crusader crosses’ that I had observed
painted on the ceiling of Saint Mary’s (one of the four completely
free-standing churches).

Nevertheless there was a genuine mystery surrounding the
origin of the churches. This mystery was reflected in the inability

of scholars to explain how they had been excavated or who their
architects could have been. It also found an echo in the quaint

insistence of some of the inhabitants of Lalibela that angels had

been involved in the work. Now, as I studied my 1 983 field notes I
discovered that there were other dimensions to the enigma.
Inside Saint Mary’s, I had recorded, a priest had taken me
close to the veiled entrance of the Holy of Holies and there had
pointed out a tall pillar. I had described this pillar in the following
terms:

White Knights, Dark Continent

117

About as thick as a good-sized tree-trunk, it soars
upwards out of the rock floor and disappears into the
gloom above. It is completely wrapped, spiral-fashion, in
a very old, discoloured shroud of cloth that bears faint
traces of washed-out dyes. The priest says that the pillar
is

sacred and that engraved upon it are certain writings by

King Lalibela himself. Apparently these writings tell the
secrets of how the rock-hewn churches were made. I
asked if the cloth could be drawn back so that I could
read these secrets, but the poor priest was horrified.
‘That would be sacrilege,’ he told me, ‘the covering is
never removed.’,
Gallingly, my notes had nothing else to add on this point. I had

gone on to scribble my little entry on the ‘Crusader crosses’ and
then had left Saint Mary’s for the next church in the complex.
Closing the battered foolscap jotter that had travelled everywhere with me in 1983, 1 felt what I can only describe as a sense
of retrospective fury at my earlier lack of curiosity. There had
been so much in Lalibela that I had failed to investigate. There
had been so many questions that I should have asked and had
failed to ask. Golden opportunities had thrown themselves
wantonly at me from every direction and I had ignored them.
Rather wearily I turned my attention to the hefty stack of
primary and secondary reference materials that I had accumulated on Ethiopia. The bulk of what I had consisted of
photocopies of worthy but irrelevant academic papers. There
was, however, one book which looked rather promising. Entitled
The Presterfohn of the Indies it was an English translation of the
,

embassy to Ethiopia in 1520-6.
Written by Father Francisco Alvarez, this narrative - running to
narrative of the Portuguese

more than five hundred pages - had first been printed in Lisbon
in 1 540 and had been rendered into English in 1881 by the ninth

Baron Stanley of Alderley.
It was Lord Stanley’s translation that I had before me - in a
relatively new edition issued by the Hakluyt Society in 1 96 1 The
editors, Professors C. F. Beckingham and G. W. B. Huntingford
of the University of London, described Alvarez as ‘rarely silly or
.

1 18

Holy Ark and Holy Qrail

man

incredible ... a kind, tactful, sensible

dishonesty of the traveller

.

.

free

.

from the

who tries to exaggerate his own

knowledge.’ As a result his book was universally regarded by

incomparably detailed
109
[and] a very important source for Ethiopian history.’
With this glowing testimonial fresh in my mind I turned to
page 205 of Volume I, where Alvarez began his account of his
own visit to Lalibela. A lengthy church-by-church description
followed which I could only admire for its exhaustive detail and
for its plain, no-nonsense language. What I found most striking
of all was how little things seemed to have changed in the four
and a half centuries that had elapsed between Alvarez’s visit and
my own. Even the covering on the pillar in Saint Mary’s had been
there! After giving an account of other aspects of that church the
Portuguese traveller had added: ‘It had besides a high column in
the cross of the transept over which is fixed a canopy, the tracery
10
of which looks as if it had been stamped in wax.’
Referring to the fact that all the churches were ‘entirely
excavated in the living rock, very well hewn’ Alvarez exclaimed at
one point:
scholars as being ‘of great interest

.

.

.

1

weary of writing more about these buildings, because it
seems to me that I shall not be believed if I write more,
and because regarding what I have already written they
may blame me for untruth. Therefore I swear by God, in
whose power I am, that all I have written is the truth, to
which nothing has been added, and there is much more
than what I have written, and I have left it that they may
not tax me with its being falsehood, so great was my
I

.

desire to make known this splendour to the world.

111

Like the good reporter he undoubtedly was, Alvarez talked to
some of the senior priests at the end of his visit - a visit, it is worth

remembering, that was made only three and a half centuries after
the churches were built. Amazed by everything he had seen, the
Portuguese cleric asked his informants if they knew how long the
carving and excavation of the monoliths had taken and who had
carried out the work. The reply he was given, unencumbered by
later superstitions, caused my pulse to race:

White Knights, Dark Continent

119

They told me that all the work on these churches was
done in twenty-four years, and that this is written, and
that they were made by white men
They say that King
112
Lalibela ordered this to be done
.

.

.

.

Coming at the end of everything else I had learned, I felt that I
could not disregard this pure and early piece of testimony. To be
sure, the history books on my shelves made no mention of any

‘white men’ going to Ethiopia before the time of Alvarez himself.

That, however, did not rule out the possibility that white men had

gone - white men who had belonged to a military- religious order
that was renowned for its international outreach and for its
secretiveness; white men who, in the words of Wolfram von
Eschenbach, were ‘forever averse to questioning ’; 113 white men
who were sometimes sent to ‘distant people
to
help them
.

gain their rights

114
’;

white

.

.

.

.

.

men whose headquarters in the

twelfth century had stood over the foundations of the Temple of

Solomon in Jerusalem.

The priests’ strange statement about the ‘white men’ who had
come to Lalibela therefore struck me as being a matter of the
utmost importance. Above all else, it strengthened my conviction
that Wolfram had been indulging in something more than mere
whimsy when, in Parsival he had linked the Templars so closely
to his Grail cryptogram and to Ethiopia. He had never, anyway,
been a whimsical writer; on the contrary he had been pragmatic,
clever and highly focussed. I thus now felt increasingly confident
that my suspicions about him were justified and that he had
indeed been admitted to the inner circles of a great and terrible
,

mystery - the secret of the last resting place of the Ark of the
Covenant. Perhaps through the good offices of his ‘source’, the
Templar acolyte Guyot de Provins, or perhaps by means of a
more direct contact, he had been commissioned by the order to
encrypt that secret in a compelling story that would go on being
told and retold for centuries.

Why should the Templars have wanted Wolfram to do such a
thing? I could think of at least one possible answer. Written down

and placed in some form of container (a chest buried in the
ground for example), the secret of the Ark’s whereabouts might
easily have been lost or forgotten within a century or so, and

120

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

would then only have come to light if somebody physically dug it
up again. Cleverly encoded in a popular vehicle such as Parzival
however (which, I discovered, had been translated into almost all
modern languages and reprinted in English five times in the
1980s in the Penguin Classics edition alone), the same secret
would have stood an excellent chance of being preserved
,

indefinitely in world culture. In this way, through all the passing

centuries, it would have continued to be available to those with

the capacity to decipher Wolfram’s code. It would, in short, have

been hidden in full view, enjoyed by all as a ‘cracking good yarn’,
but accessible only to a few - initiates, insiders, determined
seekers - as the treasure map that it really was.

This photograph of the ceiling of the rock-hewn church of Saint Mary’s was provided
to me by my Canadian publisher John Pearce in November 1991 - shortly before this
book went to press. Pearce took it on a visit that he made to Lalibela in 1982. On the
arch can be seen a stylised croix pattee contained within a Star of David - a most unusual
symbol in a Christian place of worship, but one to which it is known that the Knights
Templar were particularly attached. Behind the arch can be seen a section of the
cloth-wrapped column said by the priests to have been engraved by King Lalibela
himself with the secrets of how the rock-hewn churches were made.

16 In medieval times the Virgin Mary was repeatedly compared to both the

Ark of the Covenant and the Holy Grail. This church steeple reflects
these ideas by depicting Mary standing above the Ark.
17 and 18 Amongst

many other shared characteristics, the Holy Grail

(illustrated above right) and the Ark of the Convenant (on the horizon

below) were both said to have given off a bright supernatural radiance.

19 In this illustration from a rare 14th century manuscript, the

German poet Wolfram von Eschenbach is depicted second
from the left amongst a group of other minstrels. In his
Parsival Wolfram described the Holy Grail not as a cup or
,

container but as a stone.

20 Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, the force behind the formation
of the Knights Templar in the twelfth century, is shown
here urging the Second Crusade.

21

A Knight Templar showing the croix-pattee
that characterised the Order.

22

The great Muslim mosque known as the Dome of the Rock was built in
the seventh century

AD and stands at the site originally occupied by

Solomon’s Temple on Jerusalem’s Temple Mount.

23

Interior of the

Dome of the Rock showing the Shetiyya the ‘foundation
,

stone of the world’, which formed the floor of the Holy of Holies of

Solomon’s Temple. It was here that Solomon placed the Ark 3,000
years ago and it was from here, at some unknown date, that the sacred
relic vanished.

24 and 25. Above: Porch of the A 1 Aqsa Mosque on Jerusalem’s Temple
Mount 100 metres to the south of the Dome of the Rock. The porch, in

Gothic style with three central bays, was built by the Knights Templar in
the twelfth century when they used the A 1 Aqsa Mosque as their palace.
Below, for comparison, the Gothic north porch of Chartres Cathedral.

A*)o prcftc 3oam oae indias.

*

V“ ,V4V * *+

nil ux>

kJI vh

Jmiiv fesundo v(o Tcfcrcneo bo padre front ifco aluarej capclla »cl *ey nod
srnboj.ajaoianouamcfefmpjffl'o pojmandadocoofto fenboi cmcafa eeuui
MOdrigiis^Uurcfr-oticfuaaltejs.

26 Interior of the circular Temple Church in London, with effigies of
knights on the floor in the foreground. An early example of Gothic
architecture, the church was built by the Templars in the 12th century.

27 Frontispiece of Alvarez’ text, written in the 1520’s, describing the first
official Portuguese mission to the court of Prester John in Ethiopia.

28

The rock-hewn monolithic church of Saint Mary in the ancient
Ethiopian settlement of Lalibela. Dating to the late 12th century, the

church was ‘built by white men’ according to a local tradition recorded
by Alvarez on his visit in the 1520’s. Could these white men have been
Templars?

Twelfth century rock-hewn church of Saint George at Lalibela. The
double-cross device on its roof is a variant of the Templar cross and
was later adopted by their successors - the Portuguese Knights of
Christ.

30 Grand Master of the Templars being burnt at the stake in the early 14th
century. The suppression of the Templars began in 1307 and was
instigated by Pope Clement V and King Philip IV of France. Less than
a year earlier the first-ever Ethiopian mission to Europe had held an
audience - in France - with Pope Clement V.

Top left Pope Clement V. 32 Top centre Robert the Bruce, who gave shelter
to fugitive Templars in Scotland. 33 Top right Prince Henry the Navigator
(1394-1460), Grand Master of the Knights of Christ, who inherited Templar

31

:

:

:

traditions and who showed an exceptional interest in Ethiopia.

35

34

Vasco da Gama, a member of
the Knights of Christ, whose son
Don Christopher da Gama was
killed in Ethiopia in 1542.

James Bruce of Kinnaird, who
claimed to be descended from
Robert the Bruce and whose epic
journey to Ethiopia in the late
eighteenth century shows
evidence of a hidden agenda
concerning the Ark of the
Covenant. Though he kept it
secret during his lifetime, Bruce

was a Freemason and an inheritor
of Templar traditions in Scotland.

1

Chapter 6

Resolving Doubts

My visit to Chartres cathedral and my readings of Wolfram’s
Parzival during the spring and summer of 1989 had opened my
eyes to many things that I had missed before - notably to the
revolutionary possibility that the Knights Templar could have

made an expedition to Ethiopia in the twelfth century in search of
the lost Ark. As explained in Chapter 5

,

did not find it difficult

to see how and why they might have been motivated to do that.

But what I now needed to establish was this: other than the
Templar ‘quest’ that I thought I had identified, was there really
any convincing evidence to suggest that the last resting place of
the Ark of the Covenant might actually be in the sanctuary chapel
at Axum?

After all, there were literally hundreds of cities and churches

around the world which boasted of possessing holy relics of one
kind or another - fragments of the True Cross, Christ’s shroud,
the finger-bone of Saint Sebastian, the lance of Longinus, and so

on and so forth. In almost every case where a proper investigation
had been conducted such boasts had turned out to be hollow.

Why, therefore, should Axum be any different? The fact that its
citizens obviously believed their own legends certainly didn’t
prove anything - except, perhaps, that they were a susceptible
and superstitious lot.
And, on the face of things, there seemed to be several good
reasons for concluding that the Ethiopians did not possess the

Ark of the Covenant.

122

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

Trouble with tabots
\

First and foremost, in the mid-nineteenth century, a legate of the

Armenian Patriarch had visited Axum determined to prove that
the tradition of the Ark’s presence there, ‘which the whole of

Abyssinia believed to be the truth’, was in fact ‘an appalling lie ’.

1

After putting some pressure on the Axumite priests, the legate -

whose name was Dimotheos - had been shown
‘reddish-coloured

twenty-four

marble,

a

slab

centimetres

of

long,

twenty- two centimetres wide and only three centimetres thick

’

2

which the priests had said was one of the two tablets of stone
contained within the Ark. They had not shown him the object
believed by Ethiopians to be the Ark itself and had clearly hoped
that he would be satisfied with a glimpse of the tablet - which they
had referred to as ‘the Tabot of Moses ’. 3
Dimotheos had indeed been satisfied. He reported with the
obvious pleasure of a man who has just debunked a great myth:

The stone was virtually intact, and showed no sign of age.
At the most it dated from the thirteenth or fourteenth
Century of the present era

.

.

.

Stupid people like the

Abyssinians who blindly accept this stone as the original
are basking in a useless glory by possessing it, [for it is]

not the true original at all. Those that know the Holy
Scriptures do not require any further proof of this: the
fact is that the tablets on which the divine laws were

inscribed were placed inside the Ark of the Covenant and
lost forever 4
.

What was I to make of this? If the slab of stone shown to the
Armenian legate had really come from the relic claimed by the
Axumites to be the Ark of the Covenant then he was right to
suggest that they were basking in useless glory, because it went
without saying that something made in ‘the thirteenth or
fourteenth century of the present era’ could not possibly have

been one of the two ‘tablets of the law’ on which the Ten
Commandments had supposedly been inscribed more than
twelve hundred years before the birth of Christ. In other words, if
the contents were bogus then it followed that the container must

Resolving Doubts

123

be bogus too, which meant that the entire Axumite tradition was
indeed ‘an appalling lie’.
But that was a conclusion, I felt, that it would be premature to
accept before attempting to find the answer to an important
question: had Dimotheos been shown the object believed to be
the genuine Tabot of Moses, or had he in fact been

shown

something else?
This question was particularly pertinent because the
Armenian legate had so obviously been affronted and outraged
by the possibility that a people as ‘stupid’ as the Ethiopians might
possess a relic as precious as the Ark of the Covenant - and had
therefore very much wanted to prove that they did not. Moreover,
as I read and re-read his account, it became apparent to me that
his desire to vindicate his own prejudices had over-ridden any
proper investigative spirit on his part - and that he had also
absolutely failed to recognize the subtle and devious nature of the
Ethiopian character.

When he had visited Axum in the

1860s the specially
dedicated sanctuary chapel had not yet been built 5 and the Ark or the object believed to be the Ark - was still kept in the Holy of
Holies of the church of Saint Mary of Zion (where, in the
seventeenth century, it had been installed by Emperor Fasilidas
6
after the reconstruction of that great edifice ). Dimotheos,
however, had not been permitted to enter the Holy of Holies.
Instead he had been taken to a rickety wooden outbuilding
‘situated with some other rooms outside the church on the left’.

7

had been in this outbuilding that the ‘reddish-coloured marble
8
stone’ had been revealed to him.
Because of this it seemed to me that there was a very high
degree of probability that the Armenian legate had been duped
by the priests. The Ark, I knew, was regarded as uniquely sacred
by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. It was therefore inconceivable that it, or any part of its contents, would have been removed
even temporarily from the Holy of Holies of Saint Mary of Zion
unless there had been some extremely compelling reason. The
voyeuristic whim of a vulgar foreigner would certainly not have
qualified as such a reason. At the same time, however, this
foreigner had been an emissary of the Armenian Patriarch in
Jerusalem and it would therefore have been thought wise to treat
It

124

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

him with a certain amount of respect. What to do? The answer, I
suspected, was that the priests had decided to show him one of
the many tabots kept at Axum. And because he had so forcefully
expressed his wish to see something connected to the Ark, if not

Ark itself, it would only have been kindly and polite to
massage his ears with words that he obviously very much wanted
to hear, namely that what he was being shown was the ‘original
the

Tabot of Moses’.

Needing to be sure that I was right about this I made a longdistance telephone call to Addis Ababa, where Professor Richard
Pankhurst - my co-author on the government book in 1983 was now living (he had moved back to the city in 1987 to take up
his old post at the Institute of Ethiopian Studies). After telling

him a little about my re-awakened interest in the Axumite
tradition concerning the Ark of the Covenant, I asked him about
the Dimotheos incident. Did he think that the Tabot that the
Armenian legate had been shown could actually have been one of
the objects believed by Ethiopians to have been placed in the Ark
by Moses?
‘Most unlikely,’ Richard replied. ‘They wouldn’t show such a
sacred thing to any outsider. Besides, I’ve read Dimotheos’s

book and it’s full of mistakes and misapprehensions. He was a
pompous man, pretty unscrupulous in his dealings with the
Ethiopian Orthodox Church, and not entirely honest. I imagine
the Axum clergy would have seen through him very quickly and
fobbed him off with some other tabot that wasn’t of any great
importance to them.’

We talked for some time longer and Richard supplied me with
the names and telephone numbers of two Ethiopian scholars who

he thought might be able to help me with my research - Dr Belai
Gedai (who had spent several years making an exhaustive study
of his country’s ancient history, drawing heavily on rare Amharic
and Ge'ez documents) and Dr Sergew Hable- Selassie of the
Institute of Ethiopian Studies, the author of a highly respected

work entitled Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History to 1270 9
with which I was already familiar.
The question of what Dimotheos had or had not seen in
Axum was still very much at the forefront of my mind and I
decided that I would put the problem to Hable-Selassie. I

Resolving Doubts

125

therefore called him, introduced myself, and asked for his

opinion on the matter.

He laughed: ‘Well certainly that fellow did not see the original
Tabot of Moses. To satisfy his wish the priests showed him a
substitute - not the real one

Here in Ethiopia it is normal for
each church to have more than one tabot. In fact some have as
.

.

.

many as ten or twelve, which they use for different ceremonial
purposes. So he would have been shown one of these. There’s no

doubt about that at all.’

The confident nature of the historian’s response laid to rest
any remaining uncertainty that I may have felt about the merits
of the Armenian legate’s testimony. The ‘reddish-coloured
marble stone’ that he had seen had no value as evidence either

Ark of the
Covenant. Nevertheless his account of his visit to Axum had
raised another complicated reservation in my mind - a reservation to do with the whole issue of tabots as a category of sacred
objects. As far as I was aware these objects were supposed to be
replicas of the Ark of the Covenant - which, as I knew very well,
had been a box about the size of a tea-chest. Yet the small
marble slab that Dimotheos had been shown had been called a
tabot and it had been described as one of the tablets of stone
for

or against Ethiopia’s claim to possess the

contained inside the Ark.

This was something that I really needed to clarify. Every
Ethiopian church had its own tabot (and, as I now knew, they
sometimes had several). But were these tabots really supposed to
be replicas of the sacred object, thought to be the Ark, that was
kept in the sanctuary chapel in Axum? If that were the case, and if
all tabots were flat slabs, then the implication was that that sacred
object, too, must be a flat slab - which meant that it could not be
the Ark (although it might possibly be one of the tablets of the law
on which the Ten Commandments had been inscribed).
Certainly the tabots that I had seen over my many years of
acquaintance with Ethiopia had all been slabs rather than boxes
- slabs that had been made sometimes of wood, and sometimes of
stone. And certainly, also, it had been this very characteristic that
had led the scholar Helen Adolf to conclude that Wolfram von
Eschenbach must have had some knowledge of tabots when he

had devised his Grail Stone.

10

1

126

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

That was all very well - if tabots were meant to represent the
stone tablets that the Ark had contained. On the other hand, if
these objects were thought of as replicas of the Ark itself then the
Axumite claim to that relic would be severely damaged. I could
hardly forget that it had been precisely this problem - brought

my attention after my visit to the British Museum
Ethnographic Store in 1983 - that had caused me to abandon my
starkly to

initial research into the

great mystery that was now clamouring

for my attention once again. Before going any further, therefore,
I

felt that it was

imperative to establish once and for all exactly

what tabots were supposed to be. To this end I telephoned Dr

whom

Richard
Pankhurst had recommended to me. After introducing myself I
got straight to the point: ‘Do you believe / asked, ‘that the Ark of
Belai

Gedai,

the

Ethiopian

other

scholar

the Covenant is in Ethiopia?’
‘Yes,’ he replied emphatically. ‘Not only

me but all Ethiopians

believe that the Ark of the Covenant is in Ethiopia, kept in the

church of Saint Mary of Zion in Axum. It was brought here after
the visit of Emperor Menelik I to his father Solomon in
Jerusalem.’

‘And what about the Ethiopian word tabot ? Does that mean
“Ark”? Are tabots supposed to be replicas of the Ark in Axum?’
‘In our language the correct plural of tabot is tabotat. And, yes,
they are replicas. Because there is only one original Ark and
because the ordinary people need something tangible to which
they may attach their faith, all the other churches make use of
these replicas.

There

are

now more than twenty thousand

churches and monasteries in Ethiopia and every one of them has
at least one tabot'
‘That’s what I thought. But I’m puzzled.’
‘Why?’
‘Mainly because none of the tabotat I’ve seen looked anything
like the biblical description of the Ark. They were all slabs,
sometimes made of wood, sometimes made of stone, and none of
them were much more than a foot long and wide or more than
two or three inches thick. If objects like these are supposed to be
replicas of the relic kept in the church of Saint Mary of Zion in
Axum then the logical deduction is that that relic can’t be the Ark
.’
of the Covenant after all
.

.

Resolving Doubts

127

‘Why?’
‘Because of the biblical description. Exodus clearly depicts the

Ark as a fair-sized rectangular chest. Hang on, I’ll look up the
details

.’
.

I took

.

down my copy of the Jerusalem Bible from the bookshelf

above my desk, turned to Chapter 37 of Exodus, found the
relevant passage, and read out how the artificer Bezaleel had
built the Ark according to the divine plan given to him by Moses:
Bezaleel made the Ark of acacia wood, two and a half
cubits long, one and a half cubits wide, one and a half
cubits high. He plated it, inside and out, with pure gold.

11

‘How long exactly is a cubit?’ Gedai asked.
‘Approximately the length of a forearm from the elbow to the
tip of the middle finger - in other words about eighteen inches.

So that means the Ark would have been about three feet nine
inches in length and two feet three inches in width and depth.
Tabotat simply don’t

fit

those dimensions. They’re

much too

small.’

‘You are right,’ Gedai mused. ‘Nevertheless we do have the
original Ark of the Covenant. This is certain. In fact there is even
an eyewitness description.’
‘You mean the one given by the Armenian legate Dimotheos?’
‘No, no. Certainly not. He saw nothing. I am referring to
someone who came much earlier, a geographer named Abu Salih
- who was also an Armenian, by the way. He lived in the very early
thirteenth century and he made a survey of Christian churches
and monasteries. These churches and monasteries were mainly
in Egypt. In addition, however, he visited some neighbouring
countries, including Ethiopia, and his book contains material on
these countries as well. That is where the description of the Ark
is given. If I remember correctly it does accord quite well with
what you have just read me from Exodus.’
‘This book of Abu Salih’s? Has it ever been translated into
English?’

‘Oh yes. A very good translation was made in the nineteenth
century. You should be able to find a copy. The editor was a
certain

Mr Evetts

.’
.

.

128

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

Two days later I emerged triumphantly from the stacks of the
library of the School of Oriental and African Studies in London.

my hand was B. T. Evetts’s translation of Abu Salih’s

In

monumental Churches and Monasteries of Egypt and some Neighbouring Countries

12
.

On page 284, in small print, I found the

subheading ‘Abyssinia’ followed by eight pages of observations
and comments. Amongst them was this reference:

The Abyssinians possess the Ark of the Covenant, in
which are the two tables of stone inscribed by the finger
of God with the commandments which he ordained for
the Children of Israel. The Ark of the Covenant is placed
upon the altar, but is not so wide as the altar; it is as high
13
as the knee of a man and is overlaid with gold.
borrowed a ruler from the librarian and measured my own leg
from the sole of my foot to my knee: twenty-three inches. This, I
felt, was close enough to the twenty-seven inches given in Exodus
to be significant - particularly if the statement ‘as high as the knee
of a man’ had referred to a man wearing shoes or boots. I knew
thatsuch a rough measure could never be conclusive as a piece of
evidence; on the other hand it by no means excluded the
possibility that the Armenian geographer had seen the original
Ark of the Covenant when he had made his visit to Ethiopia in the
thirteenth century. And anyway, from my point of view, the real
importance of the account that he had given was this: it
indisputably described a substantial box or chest covered with
gold rather than a slab of wood or stone a few inches thick like the
tabotat that I had seen - or, for that matter, like the tabot that had
been shown to Dimotheos in the nineteenth century.
Equally significantly, Abu Salih had given some details about
how the object that he had seen had been used by the Christians
I

of Axum:

The liturgy is celebrated upon the Ark four times in the
year, within the palace of the king; and a canopy is spread

over it when it is taken out from its own church to the

church which is in the palace of the king: namely on the
feast of the great Nativity, on the feast of the glorious

Resolving Doubts

129

Baptism, on the feast of the Holy Resurrection, and on the
feast of the illuminating cross.

14

There could, it seemed to me, be no question but that this
early and quite matter-of-fact eyewitness account provided
considerable support for Ethiopia’s claim to be the last resting
place of the genuine Ark of the Covenant. The dimensions and

appearance were roughly right and even Abu Salih’s description
of the way in which the relic that he had seen had been covered
with a 'canopy’ when transported was in accord with the
regulations laid down in the Bible:

And when the camp setteth forward
they shall take
down the covering veil and cover the Ark with it. And
.

they shall

.

.

.

.

.

spread over it a cloth. 15

So far so good. But though the Armenian geographer was
helpful, he still did not provide me with any answer to the knotty

problem posed by the shape of that category of objects known as
tabotat. Nor was this problem one that I could afford to ignore. I
therefore decided to check out the etymology of the Ethiopic

word. In its pure and original form, I wondered, did tabot actually

mean ‘Ark’? Or did it mean 'stone tablet’? Or did it mean
something else altogether?

My investigation into this matter took me into intellectual
territory that I had never charted before (and that I would prefer

never to have to chart again), namely linguistics. Ploughing
through reams of obscure and boring documents I established
that the ancient Ethiopian language known as Ge'ez together
with its modern and widely spoken descendant Amharic, are both
members of the Semitic family of languages, to which Hebrew
,

also belongs.

16

then learned that the word most frequently used in biblical
Hebrew to refer to the Ark of the Covenant was aron 17 which
I

’

,

There was
another Hebrew word, however - tebah - from which scholars
18
agreed that the Ethiopic tabot had undoubtedly been derived.
I next sought to confirm whether this word tebah had featured
in the Hebrew Old Testament, and, after further research, I
obviously bore no similarity whatsoever to

tabot.

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

130

discovered that it had - though only twice. Significantly, in both
cases, it had been used to refer to a ship-like container first the
:

ark of Noah which contained the survivors of the human race
19

and secondly the ark of bulrushes which
contained the infant Moses after his mother had set him adrift on
20
the Nile to save him from the wrath of Pharaoh.
Turning to the KebraNagast I then found one passage in which
the Ark of the Covenant was specifically described as ‘the belly of
Two cubits and half a cubit shall be the length thereof,
a ship
and a cubit and half a cubit the breadth thereof, and thou shalt
cover it with pure gold, both the outside thereof and the inside
21
Within this ‘belly of a ship’, furthermore, were to be
thereof.’
placed ‘the Two Tables which were written by the finger of
after the

.

God’.

.

flood,

.

22

Such language left no room for doubt. Both in terms of its
etymology and its early usage the Ethiopic word tabot unambiguously connoted the biblical Ark of the Covenant in its original
form as a gold-covered container - a form for which the ‘belly of a
ship’ could serve as a clever

metaphor capable not only of

summoning up an image of the object but also of linking it
conceptually to earlier ‘ships’: the ark of Noah and the ark of
bulrushes, which of course had both also contained sacred and

precious things.

By the same token, however, tabot definitely did not mean or in
any way connote flat solid slabs of wood or stone. So there was
still

a genuine mystery here. That mystery, however, was finally

resolved for me by Professor Edward Ullendorff, Fellow of the

Academy and

incumbent of the Chair of
Ethiopian Studies at the University of London. Now retired and
living in Oxford, this renowned scholar insisted that he could see
no difficulty in explaining how slabs of wood or stone had come to
be referred to as ‘Arks’ by the Ethiopians:
British

the

first

The genuine Ark is supposed to rest at Axum; all other
churches can only possess replicas. In most cases they are
not, however, replicas of the whole Ark, but merely of its
supposed contents, i.e. the tablets of the Law ... In other
words: the description of these stone or wooden tablets as
tabotat is simply by way of a pars pro toto referring to the

1

Resolving Doubts

13

most important part of the Ark, the tables of the
Covenant. 23

Flies in amber

By eliminating an apparent contradiction, UllendorfPs solution
to the tabot problem lifted one of the clouds of doubt that hovered

over Ethiopia’s claim to possess the lost Ark. Other clouds
remained, however. Amongst them, one of the darkest was

brought to my attention by Ullendorff himself. In a paper entitled
‘The Queen of Sheba in Ethiopian Tradition’ he had indicated
very strongly that the Kebra Nagast was not to be taken seriously
as a work of history; rather its purpose had been to glorify
Ethiopia and it was to this end that the Ark had been introduced
into it.

24

Nor was Ullendorff alone in the view that the Kebra Nagast was
largely apocryphal. In the Introduction to his translation of that

great epic, for example, Sir E. A. Wallis Budge pointed out that it

was most unlikely that the Queen of Sheba could have been an
Ethiopian at all: ‘It is far more probable’, he wrote (rehearsing an
argument with which I was already somewhat familiar), ‘that her
home was Sebha, or Saba, in the south-west of Arabia.’ 25
Several authorities made much of the fact that in Solomon’s
time - a thousand years before Christ - Ethiopia had not
possessed any real civilization of its own and certainly had not
boasted an advanced urban society capable of producing so
illustrious a monarch as the Queen of Sheba. Indeed, the
consensus was that enlightenment had not even begun to dawn in
the Abyssinian highlands until about the sixth century bc and
had not reached any level of sophistication until some four
hundred years after that. Neither could this period of progress be
regarded as an Ethiopian achievement: instead the catalyst had
been an influx of Arab tribesmen whose ‘superior qualities’ had
revolutionized the sluggish culture of the native inhabitants.

Coming mainly from the Yemen, these Semitic immigrants had
settled in the north of Ethiopia and in the process of

assimilation with the local population brought about a
cultural transformation. They brought with them gifts

132

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

beyond price: religion, a more highly-developed social
26
organization, architecture and art, and a system of writing.
In short, Ethiopian civilization was not only much more recent

than the Axumite legends implied but also had been borrowed

from elsewhere. In their heart of hearts, furthermore, most
Ethiopians knew this to be true and felt deeply insecure about
their heritage. Indeed one standard work of history went so far as
to suggest that the Kebra Nagast was popular because it filled a
deep psychological need on the part of the Abyssinians ho prove
Parvenu peoples, like parvenu
their ancient origins
individuals, hanker after ancestors, and peoples have as little
.

.

.

scruple in forging family trees as have individuals.’

27

In my view the importance of all these arguments lay less in the

notion that the Kebra Nagast was mainly a work of fiction (since
that did not preclude the possibility that what it had to say about

the abduction of the Ark could have been based on some real
event), but rather in the consensus that Ethiopian civilization was
relatively young and that it had been derived from South Arabia.

This consensus had a real bearing on my attempts to establish
the ^legitimacy of the Ethiopian claim to the Ark because it
applied not only to the general civilization of the highlands but
also - and quite specifically - to the Falashas. The Kebra Nagast
stated quite plainly that the Jewish faith had been introduced into
Ethiopia in the 950s bc when Menelik and his companions had
arrived with the Ark (indeed it even said that the Queen of Sheba
28
herself had been converted to Judaism).
On the face of things,
therefore, the existence of indigenous black Jews in Ethiopia

looked like significant corroborative evidence for the Ark’s
presence. On closer examination, however, this turned out not to

be the case - or at least not according to the scholars. As Richard
Pankhurst had told me in 1983, 29 the academic establishment
was overwhelmingly of the opinion that the Jewish faith was
unlikely to have reached Ethiopia before the second century ad,
and that it had been brought across the Red Sea from the Yemen
where a large Jewish community had indeed been established
after ad 70 by emigrants fleeing Roman persecutions in
Palestine.

30

One of the strongest proponents of this view was Professor

Resolving Doubts

133

Ullendorff, who presented a long argument on the subject in his

and who concluded quite
emphatically that the ancestors of the Falashas must have been
converted by Jews who had 'entered Ethiopia via South Arabia’
over a lengthy period from ad 70 through until about ad 550. 31
I decided that I would have to investigate this issue very
thoroughly. If the Judaism of the Falashas was indeed less than
two thousand years old - and had come from Arabia - then a
influential Ethiopia

and

the Bible

great swathe of apparently convincing 'cultural corroboration’ for

between Ethiopia and Jerusalem in Old
Testament times would be obliterated at a stroke and Axum’s
lcandidacy as the last resting place of the Ark would lose much if
direct

contacts

not all of its credibility.

Soon after I began this new phase of my research, however, it
became apparent to me that the scholarly consensus in favour of
'the Yemeni theory’ had largely come about because there was an
absence of evidence for any alternative theory. There was
nothing whatever which proved that the Jewish faith could not
have arrived by some other route; on the other hand there was no
proof that it had. The tendency therefore had been to focus on
South Arabia as the likely source because it was known that there

had been other migratory movements from that region into
Ethiopia.

32

This struck me as a deplorable failure of logic in which
absence of evidence, which was one thing, was in fact being
treated as evidence of absence - which was quite another. To
reiterate, the problem was a lack of proof that Judaism might have
arrived in Ethiopia much earlier and by a different route than the
scholars believed; but there was no proof at all that this could not
have been the case.
I therefore felt that the

field was open and that what I needed

to do in order to satisfy myself one way or the other was to study

the traditions, beliefs and behaviour of the Falashas themselves

and to draw my own conclusions about their origins from these. I
thought it likely, however, that their religious observances would
have been adulterated during the twentieth century by extensive
exposure to western and Israeli visitors. I therefore turned to
older accounts that depicted their way of life before it had been
contaminated by modern cultural change.

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

134

Ironically, several of these accounts were written by foreigners

who came to Ethiopia with the express intention of engineering
cultural

change, notably nineteenth-century Christian mis-

sionaries who had heard rumours of the existence of a sizeable

population of Abyssinian Jews and who had rushed to convert

them.

One such evangelist was Martin Flad, a young German who
1855 to proselytize on behalf of the
London Society for Promoting Christianity amongst the Jews. 33
His book, The Falashas of Abyssinia was published in 1869. I
found a worn and much-handled copy of it in the British Library
and soon became intrigued by several passages in which the
author insisted that there must have been Jews in Ethiopia at least
since the time of the prophet Jeremiah (around 627 bc 34 ), and
possibly since the reign of Solomon. Flad based this assertion in
arrived in Ethiopia in

,

part on the fact that:

The Falashas know nothing of either the Babylonian or
the Jerusalem Talmud, which were composed during and
after the time of the captivity. They also do not observe

the Feasts of Purim and of the Dedication of the Temple,

which ... are still solemnly kept by the Jews of our
time. 35

On further investigation, I discovered that the Feast of the
Dedication of the Temple was properly known as Hanukkah
(meaning, literally, ‘Dedication’).

From my point of view the

most significant fact about it was that it was instituted in 1 64 bc 36
and therefore would certainly have been observed by the Jewish
community that established itself in the Yemen after ad 70. The
academic orthodoxy which had previously persuaded me to see
the Falashas as the descendants of Ethiopians converted by these

Yemeni Jews thus suddenly began to look very suspect. To put
matters as plainly as possible, non-observance of Hanukkah
suggested only one rational conclusion: the Falashas must have
acquired their Judaism before 164 bc and thus not from the
Yemen but from some other source.
I

next researched the Feast of Purim of which Flad had also

found Ethiopia’s Jews to be ignorant. This festival, too, I learned,

Resolving Doubts

135

had been observed since at least the second century bc. Indeed it
was quite possibly of even earlier provenance than that: the
events that it commemorated took place in the mid-fifth century

bc and several of the authorities whom I consulted suggested that
37
its observance had become widely popular by 425 bc
This
raised the interesting possibility - of which Flad himself had
obviously been convinced - that the Falashas had become
isolated from the evolving body of world Judaism well before that
.

date, perhaps during the sixth century bc.
I

now had a growing sense that the gap between Abyssinian

legend and historical fact was closing fast: five hundred years
before Christ, after all, was only four hundred years after
Solomon. It was beginning to look more and more probable that
the Judaism of the Falashas had arrived in Ethiopia in early Old

Testament times - just as the Kebra Nagast and the Falashas
themselves had always claimed. If this were so, then the
implications were clear: at the very least the story of the
abduction of the Ark to Ethiopia by Menelik deserved to be taken
much more seriously than the academics had hitherto allowed.
I found further evidence for this point of view in the account of
another nineteenth-century missionary, Henry Aaron Stern,
who was himself a German-Jewish convert to Christianity. He
had worked and travelled with Flad in Ethiopia and had
published his own Wanderings among the Falashas in Abyssinia in
1862.

As I read this 300-page volume I developed an intense dislike
for its author, who came across as an arrogant, brutal and
unscrupulous proselytizer with no respect whatsoever for the
culture or traditions of the people amongst whom he was
working. In general, too, I felt that his descriptions of Falasha
religion and lifestyle were thin and poorly observed. As a result,

by the time

I

was halfway through the book I had become

thoroughly impatient with it.

Then, on page 188,

I

came across something interesting.

Here, after a lengthy treatise on the absolute interdiction
amongst the Falashas of 'intermarriages with those of another
tribe or creed’, Stern described the Ethiopian Jews as being
faithful to the law of Moses 'which ... is the formula after which
they have moulded their worship.’ He then added:

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

136

*

It sounds

strange to hear in central Africa of a Jewish

altar and atoning sacrifices

.

.

[Yet], in the rear of every

.

place of worship is a small enclosure with a huge stone in
the centre; and on this crude altar the victim is

slaughtered, and all other sacrificial rites performed.

38

Though at this stage my general knowledge about Judaism was
limited to say the least, I was well aware that animal sacrifice was

no longer practised anywhere in the world by modern Jews. I had
no idea whether this ancient institution still existed amongst the
Falashas in the late twentieth century; Stern’s account, however,

made it quite clear that it had flourished a hundred and thirty
years earlier.

Continuing his description of the sacrificial enclosure, the
German missionary next remarked:

This sanctum is sacredly guarded from unlawful intrusion
and woe betide the stranger who, ignorant of Falasha
.

.

.

customs, ventures too close to the forbidden precincts
I was one day on the very verge of committing this

.

.

.

unpardonable offence. It was a very sultry and close noon
when, after several hours’ fatiguing march, we reached a
Falasha village. Eager to obtain a short rest, I went in
quest of a cool and quiet shelter, when accidentally I
espied in the midst of a secluded grassy spot a smooth
block that looked as if it had been charitably placed there
to invite the weary to solitude and repose. The thorny
stockade easily yielded to the iron of my lance, and I was
just about to ensconce myself behind the flattened stone
when a chorus of angry voices
reminded me of my
mistake, and urged me to beat a hasty retreat. 39
.

.

.

found myself wishing that Stern had received the punishment
he deserved for vandalizing a holy place. 40 At the same time,
however, I could not help but be grateful to him for drawing my
attention to the practice of sacrifice amongst the Falashas. This
was a lead well worth following up since it might provide another
clue to the date at which Ethiopia’s Jews became separated from
I

the main body of their co-religionists.

Resolving Doubts

137

devoted considerable effort to researching the obscure
subject of Judaic sacrifice in Old Testament times. The picture
I

that eventually emerged from the fog of scholarly references was

of a constantly evolving institution that started out as a simple
offering to God which anyone, priest or layman, could make and
in virtually any place where a local shrine had been established.

This state of relative unregulation, however, began to change
41
after the Exodus from Egypt around 1250 bc
During the
Hebrews’ wanderings in the wilderness of Sinai the Ark of the
Covenant was built and housed in a portable tent or ‘tabernacle’.
Thenceforward all sacrifices were to be made at the door of this
tabernacle and anyone disobeying the new law was to be
punished by banishment:
.

Whatsoever man there be of the House of Israel
that
offereth a burnt offering or sacrifice and bringeth it not to
the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer it
unto the Lord; even that man shall be cut off from among
.

his people.

I

.

.

42

learned, however, that this prohibition was rather less

absolute than it sounded. The main point of the code was not to
abolish sacrifice at local shrines in all circumstances but rather to

ensure that sacrifices were carried out exclusively at a centralized
national place of worship when and if such a place existed In the
wilderness the tabernacle housing the Ark was such a central
.

point. Later, from roughly 1200 to 1000 bc, a national sanctuary

was established in Israel at Shiloh, which thus became the new
sacrificial centre. Significantly, however, there were periods of
political upheaval when Shiloh was abandoned and during these
periods the Hebrews were permitted to sacrifice once again at
local shrines. 43

By the 950s bc Solomon’s Temple in Jerusalem had superseded Shiloh as the national religious centre. There is evidence,
however, that local sacrifices did take place elsewhere from time
to time, particularly amongst those Jews living far from the
capital. Indeed it was not until the reign of Kingjosiah (640-609
bc) that a blanket ban on all forms of sacrifice other than at the

Temple began to be strictly enforced. 44

138

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
*

So seriously was this prohibition taken that the Jews appear not
have attempted sacrifice of any kind in the decades immediately following the Temple’s destruction by Nebuchadnezzar in 587 bc. The early tradition of reverting to local shrines
to

in the absence of a centralized national place of worship seems to

have been irrevocably abandoned. Quite simply, while there was
no Temple there could be no sacrifice. 45
After the return from the Babylonian Exile, the Second
Temple was built in Jerusalem and the institution of sacrifice was

meanwhile the
absolute prohibition on local offerings was reinforced and
appears to have been strictly obeyed. This system of centralized
sacrifice remained firmly in place from 520 bc, when the Second
Temple was dedicated, until 70 ad when it was razed to the
ground by the Roman Emperor Titus. 46
No Third Temple had ever been contemplated, other than by
re-established exclusively within

its

precincts;

millennial groups who linked the fulfilment of that dream with

the coming of the still-awaited Messiah. 47 In consequence, since

ad 70, sacrifice had everywhere been abandoned by the Jews.
8

The Falashas were the sole exception to this ruleA Moreover Stern’s
account suggested that they had offered sacrifices at all their
places of worship when he had worked amongst them in the
nineteenth century. With a little further research I was able to

confirm that this tradition was so strong that sacrifices continued
to be made by the majority of Falasha communities today despite
their increased exposure to modern Jewish practices. 49
As I considered this fact, I realized that there might be a
number of possible explanations for it. The most obvious and
attractive of these explanations, however, was also the simplest -

and therefore the most likely to be

correct.

I

wrote in

my

notebook:

The ancestors of today’s Falashas must have been
converted to Judaism at a time when it was still acceptable
for those far away from the centralized national sanctuary
to practise local sacrifice. That would suggest that the

conversion took place before King Josiah’s ban - i.e. no
later than the seventh century bc and possibly even

earlier than that.

1

Resolving Doubts

139

HYPOTHESIS At some stage after the building of
:

Solomon’s Temple (mid~900s bc) but before Josiah (midboos bc) a group ofjews migrated from Israel and settled in
Ethiopia. They established local shrines at which they
conducted sacrifices to their God and they began to convert
the natives of the country to their faith. Perhaps they initially
maintained contact with their homeland. The distance was
great, however, and it is reasonable to suppose that they
would eventually have became completely isolated. They
would thus have been untouched by the great revolutions in
theological thought that took place in the Judaic world in
subsequent centuries.
This explains why the Falashas are the only Jews still
practising sacrifice. Frozen like flies in amber, trapped in a
time-warp, they are the last surviving practitioners of

genuine First Temple Judaism.

So far so good. But QUESTION: why would a group of
Jews have migrated from Israel to somewhere as far away as
Ethiopia? We are talking the tenth to seventh centuries bc
here, not exactly the jet age. The emigres must therefore
have had a very strong motive. What could that have been?
ANSWER: The KebraNagast is in no doubt about what
the motive was. It says that the migrants were the first-born

sons of the elders of Israel, and that they came to Ethiopia in
the entourage of Menelik to attend the Holy Ark of the

Covenant which they had abducted from the Temple.

Decline and fall
If the KebraNagast ' s account of the arrival ofJudaism in Ethiopia

were true, I reasoned, then I might expect to find evidence

somewhere in the historical annals to prove that the Jewish faith
had formerly enjoyed a much greater prominence in that country
than it did today. That certainly would make sense if it had
originally been associated with so exalted a figure as Menelik 1.
remembered, moreover, that my old friend Richard Pankhurst
had mentioned something to me that was relevant to this line of
inquiry. When we had worked together in 1983 he had told me

140

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

had once been a prosperous and powerful
people with kings of their own.
I therefore placed another telephone call to Richard in Addis
Ababa to see if he could recommend any sources that might shed
light on the decline and fall of the Falashas.
He directed me to a book with which I was already slightly
that the Falashas

familiar: Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile in the Years

by the Scottish adventurer James Bruce of
Kinnaird. Pankhurst also suggested that I should look into the
‘Royal Chronicles’ compiled during the reigns of a number of
Ethiopian emperors since medieval times. These, he said,
documented a series of wars that had been fought between the
Christians and the jews and could be of interest. ‘Other than
that,’ he added, ‘Pm not sure where you can get the kind of
information you want. The problem is that almost nothing in
depth was ever written about the Falashas before Bruce.’
James Bruce of Kinnaird, as I was to discover, was something
of an enigma. Hailing from a staunchly Presbyterian Stirlingshire
family, he had belonged to the minor aristocracy and had
inherited sufficient wealth to indulge a lifelong passion for

iy 68-iyyj written

overseas travel. Initially it seemed to me that it was only this

wanderlust that had lured him into the heart of the Ethiopian
highlands. When I began to look at his work on the Falashas,

however, it gradually dawned on me that his interest in these
people had been too intense and too sustained to be explained
away merely as the normal curiosity of an intelligent traveller.
Over a period of several years he had carried out meticulous
research into the faith, customs and historical origins of
Abyssinia’s black Jews. In the process, interviewing elders and
religious figures, he had recorded many ancient traditions that

would otherwise most certainly have been lost to history.
Amongst these traditions was one which stated that King
Ezana of Axum had been reading the Psalms of David when he
was first introduced to Frumentius, the young Syrian who later
converted him to Christianity. 50 Bruce, furthermore, made it
quite clear that the monarch’s acquaintance with this book of Old
Testament verse resulted from the widespread prevalence ofJudaism
51 in Ethiopia at that time
i.e. the early part of the fourth century
AD.

1

Resolving Doubts

14

In the context of what I now knew about Falasha customs, I

was happy to give credence to this assertion. Indeed I took it as
additional support for

my own rapidly evolving hypothesis -

namely that a form of the Jewish faith incorporating archaic
traditions of blood sacrifice had been in Ethiopia for at least a
thousand years before Frumentius turned up to preach the
gospel of Christ.

was soon to find further confirmation of this in an old and
rare Ethiopic manuscript that had once rested in the Tigrayan
fortress of Magdala (stormed and looted by British forces under
General Napier in the nineteenth century). Entitled^ History and
I

Genealogy of the Ancient Kings it contained the following passage:
4T

Christianity was introduced into Abyssinia 331 years after

the birth of Christ by Abuna Salama, whose former name

was Frumentos or Frumentius. At that time the Ethiopian
kings reigned over Axum. Before the Christian religion was

known in Ethiopia half the inhabitants were Jews, who
observed the Law; the other half were worshippers of
Sando, the dragon. 52

The reference to worshippers of ‘the dragon’ - presumably a
rubric for all sorts of primitive animistic gods - was interesting. It

suggested that Judaism had at no point become the exclusive
state religion of Ethiopia and that, in the pre-Christian era, the

Falashas - like Jews everywhere - had accepted the coexistence

of many pagan creeds.

I

reasoned, however, that they would

undoubtedly have been put on their guard, and been tempted to
abandon their traditional tolerance, by the arrival of a militantly
evangelistic monotheistic sect like the Christians,

whom they

would have had good reason to see as a real threat to their preeminence and to their beliefs. The conversion of the Axumite
king would have looked particularly ominous in such a context
and thereafter Jews and Christians might well have found
themselves locked in bitter struggle.
There was considerable support for this analysis amongst the
traditions recorded by Bruce. The Scottish adventurer asserted,

for example, that the Falashas

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

142

were very powerful at the time of the conversion to
Christianity or, as they term it, ‘the Apostasy’. At this
time they declared a prince of the tribe of Judah, and of
the race of Solomon and Menelik, to be their sovereign
refused to abandon the religion of his
This prince
.

.

.

.

.

.

forefathers. 53

Such a state of affairs, Bruce added, was bound to lead to conflict
since the Christians, too, claimed to be ruled by a king descended

from the line of Solomon. The conflict, when it came, was thus
precipitated by concerns that were entirely secular:
Although there was no bloodshed upon difference of
religion, yet, each having a distinct king with the same
pretensions, many battles were fought from motives of
ambition and rivalship of sovereign power. 54

Bruce provided no details of these ‘many battles’ and the history
books, too, were silent concerning them - other than noting that
in the

sixth century

ad Kaleb,

a Christian king of

Axum,

assembled a vast army and took it across the Red Sea to do battle
with a Jewish monarch in the Yemen. 55 Was it not quite
probable, I now speculated, that this Arabian campaign had been
an escalation of fightingbetweenjews and Christians in Ethiopia
itself?

Evidence that this might indeed have been the case was
contained in the KebraNagast Towards the end of the great epic
I found specific mention of King Kaleb in a chapter that seethed
with anti-Judaic sentiments: here, for no apparent reason, the
Ethiopian Jews were suddenly described as the ‘enemies of God’;
furthermore, the text advocated that they should be ‘cut to pieces’
and that their lands should be laid waste. 56
All this was said in a context that ascribed two sons to Kaleb.
One of these sons was named ‘Israel’ while the other was referred
to as ‘Gebra MaskaP (an Ethiopic term meaning ‘Slave of the
Cross’). The symbolism of a Jewish-Christian rift was hard to
miss (with the Christian faction, of course, being represented by
Gebra Maskal and the Jewish faction by Israel). And this analysis
began to look even more credible when I remembered that the
.

Resolving Doubts

143

Falashas never referred to themselves as ‘Falashas’ but always as
‘Beta Israel’, i.e. ‘House of Israel’. 57

The basic message, therefore, seemed clear enough; nevertheless, the whole passage was complicated by dense and obscure

imagery. Several times, for example, the words ‘Chariot’ and
‘Zion’ cropped up. I could make little or no sense of the former. I

already knew very well, however, that the latter - ‘Zion’ - was one

of a number of different epithets for the Ark of the Covenant

used frequently in the Kebra Nagast 58
Everything became clear when I read that Israel and Gebra
Maskal were destined to fight each other. After this battle, the
.

text continued:
4T

God will say to Gebra Maskal, ‘Choose thou between the
Chariot and Zion’, and He will cause him to take Zion,
and he shall reign openly upon the throne of his father.
And God will make Israel to choose the chariot, and he
shall reign secretly and he shall not be visible. 59
In this fashion, the Kebra Nagast concluded:

The kingdom of the Jews shall be made an end of and the
Thus hath
Kingdom of Christ shall be constituted
God made for the King of Ethiopia more glory and grace
.

.

.

and majesty than for all the other kings of the earth
because of the greatness of Zion, the Ark of the Law of
60
God.
It

seemed to me beyond any reasonable doubt that what was

being described here, albeit in arcane and symbolic language,
was a conflict between the Jews and Christians of Ethiopia - a
battle for supremacy in which the followers of the new religion
triumphed while the followers of the older faith were vanquished,
thereafter to live invisibly in secret places. It was also clear that

the Ark of the Covenant - ‘Zion’ - had stood at the heart of this
struggle for power and that the Christians had in

some way

managed to wrest it from the Jews who thenceforward had had to
content themselves with the ‘Chariot’, in other words with

second best.

144

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

As my researches continued, however, it became obvious that
the Falashas had not tamely accepted the invisibility and
second-class status that the Christians had sought to impose on
them. On the contrary, I found a considerable body of evidence
to suggest that they had fought back - and, furthermore, that they
had done so with great determination and over a rather lengthy
period.

The

first

tantalizing

hint

of sustained warfare between

Abyssinia’s Jews and Christians came in an account written by a

ninth-century traveller named Eldad Hadani - better known as

Eldad ‘the Danite’ because he claimed descent from the lost
Israeli tribe of Dan. Exactly who he was, or where he came from,
was by no means clear. In a widely circulated letter written in ad
833, however, he had claimed that the Danites - and three other
‘lost’ Jewish clans - lived in Ethiopia where they were locked in
permanent antagonism with the Christian rulers of that country:
‘And they slew the men of Ethiopia and unto this very day they
61
fight with the children of the kingdoms of Ethiopia.’

On investigating further I discovered that several authorities
regarded Eldad as a charlatan and his letter as an improbable
piece of fiction. Others, however, felt that much of what he said

was firmly grounded in fact.

62
I

had no hesitation in aligning

myself with the latter camp - simply because Eldad’s references
to the Abyssinian Jews were too close to the truth about the
Falashas to have been pure fabrications. He insisted, for
example, that they had emigrated from the Holy Land to Ethiopia
in First Temple times, shortly after the separation of the
kingdoms of Judah and Israel (i.e. around 931 bc 63 ). In
consequence, he said, they did not celebrate festivals instituted
after that date such as Purim and Hanukkah. Neither did they
have rabbis ‘for these were of the Second Temple and they did
64
not reach them.’
I was already well aware of the non-observance of the later
festivals by the Falashas, and of the implications of this. On
checking I now discovered that they did not have rabbis either:
indeed their religious officials were called kahen a word derived
from the Hebrew kohen (more familiar as the common name
Cohen) meaning ‘priest’ and dating back to the era of the First
,

Temple. 65

Resolving Doubts

145

All in all, therefore, it did sound very much as though Eldad

had been in Ethiopia as he had claimed, and had given a faithful
enough description of the state ofJudaism there in the mid-ninth
century ad. His report of sustained fighting between the
Abyssinian Jews and their neighbours during this period thus
also looked quite plausible:

And their banner is white and written thereon in black is
‘Hear O Israel the Lord our God is one God’
They
.

,

.

.

are numerous as the sands of the sea, and have no

employment but war and, whensoever they fight, they say
it is not good for mighty men to flee, let them die young,
but let them not flee, let them strengthen their heart unto
God, and several times they say and cry all of them
together, ‘Hear

O Israel, our God is one God’, and then

they all take heed.

66

Eldad concluded that the Jewish tribes in Ethiopia had been
successful in their warlike endeavours and had ‘placed their
hands on the necks of their enemies’. 67 This, it seemed to me,
was nothing more nor less than a fairly accurate description of the
true balance of power between Christians and Jews in the ninth
and early tenth centuries ad. It was, after all, at precisely this time
that the Christian Solomonic dynasty of Axum had been
overthrown. And I already knew from my previous research that
this coup d'etat had been the work of a Jewish monarch - a great
queen named Gudit (or Judit, or possibly Yehudit).
As outlined in Chapter 5, Gudit’s brief and bloody reign was
followed, perhaps half a century later, by the establishment of the
Zagwe dynasty, to which King Lalibela had belonged. Although
they were almost certainly Jews at the outset, the Zagwes
themselves later converted to Christianity and subsequently
(about fifty years after Lalibela’s death) abdicated the throne in
favour of a monarch claiming Solomonic descent.

however, it quickly became
apparent to me that the Zagwe interregnum had not halted the
chronic state of conflict between the Abyssinian Jews and

Whatever

else

it

achieved,

Christians. As my researches continued I learned that Benjamin

of Tudela, a widely travelled Spanish merchant who lived in the

146

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

twelfth century, had reported the existence of Jews in Ethiopia

who were ‘not under the yoke of the Gentiles’, and who had
and castles on the summits of mountains’. He spoke of
wars with the Christians in which the Falashas were normally
successful, taking ‘spoil and booty’ at will because no man could
‘cities

‘prevail against them’.

68

Then, in the fifteenth century, the Jewish traveller Elijah of
Ferrara related that he had met a young Falasha in Jerusalem and
was told how his co-religionists ‘preserved their independence in
a mountainous region from which they launched continual wars
69
against the Christian emperors of Ethiopia.’
A hundred years later the Jesuit Bishop of Oviedo asserted that
the Falashas hid away in ‘great inaccessible mountains; and they
had dispossessed the Christians of many lands which they were
masters of, and the kings of Ethiopia could not subdue them,
because they have but small forces, and it is very difficult to
penetrate into the fastnesses of their rocks.’

70

The bishop was wrong, however. His statement was made in
557 - by which date, far from ‘dispossessing’ anyone, the
Falashas were actually under sustained attack from Christian
forces bent, apparently, on genocide. Sarsa Dengel, the
Solomonic emperor who ruled from 1563 to 1594, waged a
seventeen-year campaign against them - a campaign described
by one respected scholar as ‘a veritable crusade, inspired by
1

religious fanaticism.’

During the

71

which saw brutal onslaughts against
Falasha strongholds in the Simien mountains west and south of
the Takazze river, the defenders acquitted themselves with great
dignity. Even Sarsa Dengel’s sycophantic chronicler could not
avoid expressing admiration for the courage of one group of
Jewish women who, rather than be captured and used by the
emperor’s men, hurled themselves off a cliff with the cry Adonai
fighting,

‘

[God] help me’. 72
Later the Falasha king, Radai, was taken prisoner. Offered his
life if only he would beg the Virgin Mary for mercy - and death if
he would not - he is reported to have said: ‘Is not the mention of
the name of Mary forbidden? Make haste! It is better for me that I
should depart from a world of lies to a world of justice, from the
darkness to the light; kill me, swiftly.’ The emperor’s general,

Resolving Doubts

147

Yonael, answered: ‘If you prefer death, die bravely and bow your
head.’ Radai then bowed and Yonael struck him with a great

sword: the single blow instantly decapitated the Falasha monarch

and passed through his knees also, the blade finally burying itself
in the ground. Those who witnessed this horrible scene were said
to have admired ‘the courage of the Jew in death who declared
the things of the earth are bad and the things of heaven are
good.’ 73

Towards the end of the same campaign the last two Falasha
fortresses in the high Simiens were attacked and overwhelmed

despite the bravery of the defenders. In both cases the leaders

and their picked men chose suicide rather than captivity.
This did not bring an end to the persecutions, however. On the
contrary, even worse atrocities were committed after 1 607 when
Emperor Susneyos ascended the throne. He launched a pogrom
against

all

Falashas

living in the vast highland

still

expanses

between Lake Tana and the Simien mountains. During the next
twenty years of ‘unwarrantable butchery’ thousands were killed
in fierce fighting and their children were sold as slaves. The few
survivors, according to the detailed account given by the Scottish
traveller James Bruce:
were ordered upon pain of death to renounce their
religion, and be baptised. To this they consented, seeing
there was no remedy
Many of them were baptised
accordingly, and they were all ordered to plough and
harrow on the Sabbath day. 74
.

.

.

The upshot of such sustained and vindictive oppression was
autonomous
statehood that they had obviously once enjoyed - and thus
hastened their slide into obscurity. Looking back through the
admittedly sketchy historical documents at my disposal, I found
that it was even possible to chart this gradual submergence and
that

it

forever deprived Ethiopia’s Jews of the

disappearance in numerical terms.
In the early 1600s, for example, the Falashas were said to have
numbered some ‘100,000 effective men’. 75 Assuming one

man’ per family of five, this would give a total
population for that period of around 500,000. Nearly three
‘effective

.

148

Holy Ark and Holy Qrail

hundred years later - in the late nineteenth century - the Jewish
scholar Joseph Halevy put total Falasha numbers at around
76
By the end of the first quarter of the twentieth century
1 5 0,000.
this figure had plummeted to just 50,000 - according to the
undoubtedly well-informed estimate of another Jewish investigator, Jacques Faitlovich. 77 Sixty years on, in the famine year of
1984, the Falasha population of Ethiopia was reliably estimated
at 28, 000.

78

My reading left me in no doubt that the watershed had come at
the beginning of the seventeenth century with the Susneyos

campaigns, which had clearly broken the back of Falasha
resistance. Before that they had been a populous and powerful
folk

with kings and a kingdom of their own;

disenfranchised

and

beaten,

their

numbers

afterwards,

remorselessly

declined.

The

more than adequately
resolved the contradiction that had been bothering me, namely
historical

record,

therefore,

how to explain the latter-day victimization and impoverishment
of the Falashas if it were true that Judaism had been brought to
Ethiopia by so exalted a figure as Menelik I - who had also

brought the Holy Ark of the Covenant, the most precious and
prestigious relic of the ancient world. I now realized that there
was no contradiction at all. Indeed a scenario in which the Jewish
religion had once enjoyed great influence suggested the only
possible motive for the merciless pogroms, killings and mass
enslavements that Susneyos and other Christian emperors had
inflicted upon their Falasha compatriots. Simply stated, such
bizarre and apparently psychopathic behaviour made a twisted
kind of sense if the Christians had activelyfeared the possibility of
a resurgence ofJudaism - and if their fear had stemmed from the
fact that this rival monotheistic faith had earlier represented an
extremely strong and enduring theme in Ethiopian life.

‘Consummation of heart’s desire

.

All this, I reasoned, strongly supported the view that Judaism had

arrived in Ethiopia long before Christianity. By the same token it
also added some social corroboration to the legendary account of

Menelik’s abduction of the Ark. To summarize, I now knew that:

Resolving Doubts

149

• The Falashas’ archaic traditions of blood sacrifice - as
well as some of their other religious practices - cast

grave doubt on the academic orthodoxy which favoured
a late (and South Arabian) origin for Ethiopian

Judaism. On the contrary the evidence suggested quite
compellingly that the Jewish faith must have come to
Ethiopia in First Temple times and must then have

been isolated there. Furthermore, the best possible
account of how and why Judaism had taken root in the
heart of Africa at so early a date was provided by the
Kebra Nagast. Since the story of the abduction of the
Ark was central to that account it followed that
Ethiopia’s claim to possess the sacred relic deserved to

be taken seriously.
• There was clear evidence to suggest that the Jewish
faith had been an important force in Ethiopia long
before the arrival of Christianity in the fourth century

ad. This evidence also suggested that Jews and
Christians had subsequendy engaged in a protracted
struggle to the death. The winners of this struggle had

been the Christians - who had, in the process,
captured the Ark of the Covenant. Thereafter they had
gradually incorporated it into their own non-Jewish
religious ceremonies. This was the only satisfactory

explanation for what was otherwise an

incomprehensible anomaly - namely the crucial role,
unique in the Christian world, played in all Ethiopian
church services by replicas of an Old Testament relic.
• These replicas depicted the contents of the Ark - i.e.
the tablets of stone - rather than the Ark itself. This
had originally confused me; I now understood,
however, that it was merely an example of a culture
being 'economical with its symbols’. In the Holy of
Holies of every one of the more than twenty thousand

Orthodox churches in Ethiopia was a tahot Behind
these tabotat - ahd directly responsible for the
superstitious dread which they inspired in the general
population - lay a mysterious and puissant object.
There now seemed to me to be every possibility that
.

150

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
that object might indeed be the Holy Ark of the

Covenant.

%

Of course there were still several loose ends. These included
the important issue of the ethnic identity of the Queen of Sheba

(could she really have been an Ethiopian?). Linked to this, and of

equal weight, was another legitimate doubt that the

at least

scholars had raised: in the era of Solomon was it really possible
that Ethiopia could have possessed a sufficiently ‘high’ civiliza-

tion to have engaged in direct cultural contact with ancient Israel?

was the problem of Axum - to which Richard
Pankhurst had drawn my attention in 1983. 79 The sacred city
had not even existed in Solomon’s time and therefore the Ark
could not have been brought to it. This did not preclude the
possibility that the relic might have been deposited at some other
place in Ethiopia and then moved to Axum at a later date. If so,
where was that ‘other place’ and why had I encountered no
Finally there

traditions concerning it?

These, I realized, were questions for which I would eventually
have to seek answers. There were others, too. Indeed it was
perhaps intrinsic to the occult and recondite nature of the Ark of
the Covenant that it would always generate questions, confusions, ambiguities and misgivings. An object so rare and
precious, imbued with such power, venerated with such fervour
over so many centuries - and charged with the numinous energy
of God - could hardly be expected to yield up its secrets easily or
to any casual inquirer.
I felt, however, that the evidence I had already unearthed in
support of Ethiopia’s claim to be the last resting place of the relic
was sufficiently thought-provoking to merit further research.
Moreover, when I combined this evidence with the results of the
decoding exercise that I had just carried out on Wolfram’s
Parzival I found it difficult to resist the conclusion that two plus
two did indeed equal four.
In short, knowing what I knew now, it seemed to me hardlysurprising that the clandestine tradition of quest that I had
identified should have focussed on the Abyssinian highlands.
After all, for a group of knights whose very identity was bound up
with the mysteries of Solomon’s Temple, no real historical relic
,

1

Resolving Doubts

15

other than the Ark could possibly have served as a more fitting
object of chivalric endeavour. By the same token, there was only

one country in which such an endeavour might have been
undertaken with any genuine hope of success - a country which
had a living institution of Ark-worship, a Solomonic heritage,
and a credible claim to possess the Ark itself.
I therefore believed I was right in my hypothesis that the
Templars had launched a quest in Ethiopia in the late twelfth
century and I believed that they had found the precious relic
which Wolfram had described as ‘the consummation of heart’s
80

As I shall recount in the next chapter, however, I also
believed that they had lost it again - that it had been wrested from
them and that they had been obliged to quit Ethiopia without it.
desire’.

Why? Because a very few intrepid men continued to travel to
Ethiopia in search of the Ark long after the utter destruction of
the Knights of the Temple of Solomon in the fourteenth century.

Furthermore, though they travelled at different periods, and
were born in different lands, all these later adventurers were
directly linked to the Templars and had inherited their
traditions.

Chapter 7

A Secret and
Never-Ending Quest

From the first to the sixth century ad the empire centred on the
city of

Axum in northern Ethiopia could rightly claim to rank

amongst the most powerful and prosperous in the known world.
It dealt on equal terms with Rome and Persia and sent its navies
sailing to ports as far afield as Egypt, India, Ceylon and China. Its
architectural and artistic achievements were impressive and it
became the first bastion of Christianity in sub-Saharan Africa,
adopting the new faith as its official religion in the early fourth
century

ad

(coincidentally at

much the same

time as the
1

miraculous conversion of Constantine the Great).
By the seventh century, however, Axum’s light had begun to
dim; the embassies that it sent abroad were now few and far

between and its once formidable military power was clearly in
decline. This marked change, which eventually led to total
isolation, had much to do with the advance of the belligerent
forces of Islam and the encirclement of Abyssinian Christianity
during and after the lifetime of the Prophet Muhammad (ad
570-632). ‘Encompassed by the enemies of their religion,’ wrote
Edward Gibbon in his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire ‘the
Ethiopians slept for near a thousand years, forgetful of the world
2
by whom they were forgotten.’
The millennium to which the great English historian referred
lasted from roughly the seventh to the sixteenth centuries, during
which time it would be fair to say that Ethiopia all but
disappeared from world consciousness. Formerly well known to
outsiders, and relatively well travelled, this Christian country in
the remote highlands of Africa was gradually transformed into a
mysterious realm of myth and magic in which dragons and other
,

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

153

monsters were believed to dwell - a terra incognita where no one
dared (or wanted) to venture.
It would have been tempting to assume that the Abyssinians
had reverted to barbarism or stagnated during the long, dark hole
in their history. My researches had shown me, however, that the
opposite was true: as the extraordinary rock-hewn churches of
Lalibela proved, a rich and idiosyncratic culture had been
preserved throughout. Moreover, although this culture was
introverted and suspicious of the motives of foreign powers, it
had stayed in contact with the outside world. Prince Lalibela
himself had spent twenty-five years as an exile in Jerusalem in the
second half of the twelfth century. And it had been from
Jerusalem that he had returned to Ethiopia to claim his kingdom
and to build the monolithic churches that now bear his name.
As outlined in Chapter 5, my findings had convinced me of the
possibility that Lalibela might have been accompanied by a
contingent of Templars when he left the Holy Land in 1185 to
win back his throne. These knights, I believed, would have been
motivated first and foremost by a desire to seek out the Ark of the
Covenant in Ethiopia. In furtherance of this end it seemed logical
to suppose that they would have been more than willing to assist
the prince to achieve his own political objectives - since by so
doing they might reasonably have expected to gain great
influence.

The reader will recall that I then learned of an Ethiopian
tradition which told of the involvement of mysterious ‘white men’
in the construction of the Lalibela churches. This tradition was

an ancient one. Indeed, it had already been very old when it had
first been recorded in the early sixteenth century by a Portuguese
visitor, Father Francisco Alvarez. I knew that the Templars had
been great builders and architects, 3 and it was therefore difficult
to resist the conclusion that they might have been the ‘white men’
who had had a hand in the creation of the rock-hewn monoliths.
Furthermore, since the churches were twenty-four years in the
making, the implication was that the knights had - at the very
least - had a sustained presence in Ethiopia and perhaps had
entertained plans for an even longer-term involvement in the
affairs of that country.

The suspicion that this might indeed have been the case

154

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

deepened as my research continued. In order to explain why, it is
first of all necessary to acquaint the reader with what happened to
the Templars during and immediately after the brutal suppression of the order in the early fourteenth century.

It

is

also

necessary to cross-reference this information with certain events
that took place in Ethiopia at around the same time.

A period involved in darkness
Founded in the year 1 1 19, and given official recognition by the
church in 1128 at the Synod of Troyes, the Templars quickly
rose to a position of great international power, wealth and
prestige - a position from which they were nevertheless doomed
to fall within two centuries. The history of the order’s catastro-

phic collapse has been too frequently and thoroughly recounted

elsewhere to require extensive repetition here. 4 Suffice it to say

October 1307, all Templars
residing in France were arrested. This was a well co-ordinated
operation that saw simultaneous dawn swoops on hundreds of
Templar properties by the bailiffs and seneschals of the French
king, Philip IV. By nightfall 15,000 men were in chains and
Friday the 13 th had won a unique place for itself in the popular
imagination as the most unlucky and inauspicious date in the
that quite suddenly, on Friday 13

calendar.

The charges levelled against the Templars to justify their
dramatic and humiliating arrests were as lurid as they were
imaginative. They were accused, for example, of denying Christ

and spitting on His image, and of giving each other indecent
kisses fin shame of human dignity, according to the profane rite

of the order’ (these kisses were said to be placed on the anus,
navel and mouth of each initiate at the time of his induction). It

was also alleged that they engaged in a wide range of other
homosexual practices (which were ‘required without the possibility of refusal’), and - last but not least - that they made
offerings to idols. 5

At this time (and until 1377) the official residence of the
Papacy was the city of Avignon in Provence. The reasons for the
abandonment of the Vatican need not be gone into here. 6
Obviously, however, the removal of the Holy See to a point so

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

155

close to French territory gave King Philip great influence over

the Pope (Clement V who had been crowned at Lyons in Philip’s

presence in 1305 7 ). This influence was exercised to the detriment of the Templars, whose destruction Philip was determined
to ensure not only in France but also in every other country in

which they were established. To this end the French monarch
put pressure on Clement V who in due course issued a bull
(Pastoralis praeeminentiae
dated 22 November 1307) which
ordered the arrest of the Templars throughout the Christian
,

world.

8

Proceedings

England, Spain,
Germany, Italy and Cyprus and, in 1312, another bull from the
puppet Pope officially suppressed the order. Meanwhile
thousands of Templars had been subjected to the most horrific
followed

as

far

afield

as

tortures and inquisitions. Many were subsequently burned at the

- including Grand Master Jacques de Molay and the
Preceptor of Normandy, Geoffroi de Charnay. 9
stake

It

is

not

my intention here to go in any depth into the

persecution, trial and destruction of the Templars. I only became

had
unearthed which suggested a possible Templar quest for the Ark
in Ethiopia in the late twelfth century. Having established that a
group of knights could have accompanied Lalibela from
Jerusalem in the year 1 1 85 I naturally wondered what might have
happened next - and this curiosity led me to look for clues in the
subsequent history of the Templar Order.
That history, of course, was rather short: less than 130 years after
Lalibela’s accession to the throne of Ethiopia the Templars had
been rounded up, tortured, and burnt at the stake. Their properties
and money had been shared out amongst the ruling houses of
Europe; their order had ceased to exist; and their good name had
been tainted by charges of sodomy, blasphemy and idolatry.
Nor, in the records of the last century of their existence, could
interested in these matters because of the evidence

I

shred of evidence to support the view of a sustained
Templar quest in Ethiopia. After the early 1200s the trail simply
I find a single

went cold; from then until the arrests in 1307 the order seemed
to have been concerned solely with its campaigns in the Near
East and with the build-up of its own considerable power and
wealth.

156

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
%

Where else, I wondered, might I find the information I was
looking for? Few attempts had been made to chronicle developments in Ethiopia in the period that now concerned me. I knew,
however, that James Bruce had done his utmost to gather and
record ancient traditions during his lengthy visit in the
eighteenth century. I therefore turned to his Travels - which I

now kept constantly on my desk.
Towards the end of Volume I, as I had hoped, I came across
several pages devoted to the reign of King Lalibela. Unfortunately much of what the Scottish adventurer had written was

my own investigation. There was, however, one
particular detail that attracted my attention. Drawing on ‘the
irrelevant to

and traditions
thought the most authentic' in
10
Ethiopia,
Bruce reported that Lalibela had promoted a scheme
to reduce the downstream flow of water into the Nile river system
11
in order ‘to famish Egypt’.
After ‘an exact survey and
calculation’, it seemed this illustrious monarch of the Zagwe
dynasty had ascertained:
histories

.

.

.

that there ran on the summit, or highest part [of

Ethiopia], several rivers which could be intercepted by

mines, and their stream directed into the low country

southward, instead of joining the Nile, augmenting it and

running northward. By this he found he should be able so
to disappoint its increase, that it never would rise to a
12
height proper to fit Egypt for cultivation.

Such a project, I could not help but think, would certainly have
suited Templar ambitions which, by the end of Lalibela’s reign
(ad 121 i), had begun to focus on the conquest of Egypt. Several
extensive battles were fought at this time on the banks of the Nile,

and the Templars spent more than a year besieging the Arab
13
fortress at Damietta in the delta.
There could be no doubt,
therefore, that a ‘famished’ and weakened Egypt would have
been very much to their liking.
In the event, however, the diversion of the rivers was never
completed: ‘Death, the ordinary enemy of all these stupendous
undertakings, interposed here and put a stop to this enterprise of

:

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest
Lalibela.’

14

Bruce then added a comment on the

157

last

two

monarchs of the Zagwe dynasty:

To Lalibela succeeded Imrahana Christos, remarkable
for nothing but being son of such a father as Lalibela, and

father to such a son as Naakuto Laab; both of them

distinguished for works very extraordinary, though very
different in their kind. The first, that is those of the
father, we have already hinted at, consisting in great

mechanical undertakings. The other was an operation of
the mind, of still more difficult nature, a victory over
ambition, the voluntary abdication of a crown. 15

was already familiar with the historical details that followed. In
1 270, Naakuto Laab - the last of the Zagwes - was persuaded to
abdicate his throne in favour of a certain Yekuno Amlak, a
monarch claiming Solomonic descent. This king, as the reader
may recall, had been biding his time in the distant province of
Shoa where the Solomonic line had been preserved by the
descendants of the single royal prince who had escaped the
16
uprising of the Jewish queen Gudit in the tenth century.
Bruce had little or nothing to say about Yekuno Amlak himself,
or about his immediate successors, Yagba Zion (1285-94) and
Wedem Ara’ad (who ruled until the year 1314). Indeed, it
seemed that the normally fastidious research methods favoured
by the Scottish traveller had failed to yield any solid information
I

at all for the century that followed Lalibela’s death in ad

1 2 1 1

‘All this period is involved in darkness,’ Bruce complained. ‘We

might guess, but since we are not able to do more, it answers no
good purpose to do so much.’ 17
Similar darkness, as I already knew, also enshrouded the
period before Lalibela’s accession to the throne. I was therefore
left with a host of unanswered questions. Of these by far the most
important concerned the Ark of the Covenant: I needed to know
what had happened to it during the roughly 300 years (from the
tenth to the thirteenth century) in which the rule of the
Solomonic dynasty had been interrupted. And I needed to know
whether the Templars might have gained direct access to the

158

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

sacred relic if, as I supposed, they had established themselves in
Ethiopia during Lalibela’s reign.

Once again I telephoned the historian Belai Gedai in Addis
Ababa to see if he could enlighten me with his knowledge of local
traditions.
‘In the tenth century’, he told me, ‘we Ethiopians say that the

Ark was removed from Axum by the priests and the people in
order to keep it safe from the ravages of Queen Gudit, and we say
that it was brought to an island on Lake Zwai
‘You mean in the Rift Valley - south of Addis Ababa?’
.’

.

.

‘Yes.’

‘That was a hell of a long way for it to be moved.’
‘Yes, but no lesser distance would have been safe. Gudit was
Jewish, you know. She wanted to establish the Falasha religion all
over the country and she wanted to destroy Christianity. She

came to burn and rob the churches at Axum. So the priests
carried off the Ark to prevent it from falling into her hands, and
they brought it very far - all the way to Zwai! - where they were
sure that it would be out of her reach.’

‘Do you know how long it remained on the island?’
‘Our traditions say that it was there for seventy years and that
after that it was taken back to Axum.’
I thanked Gedai for his help and rang off. What he had told me
fitted - more or less - with the picture of Ethiopian medieval
history that I had thus far managed to piece together. I knew that
the throne of Ethiopia had been held by Gudit for some years
after she had deposed the Solomonids. I also knew that she had
eventually been succeeded by the first monarch of the Zagwe
dynasty, himself probably a Jew.

Later, however (and certainly well before Lalibela’s time), the

Zagwes had converted to Christianity. It therefore seemed quite
possible that they might have permitted the safe return of the Ark
to its customary resting place in Axum - where, presumably, it
would still have been when Lalibela came to power.
Of obvious relevance to this argument was the eyewitness
account of the Ark in Ethiopia given by the Armenian geographer
Abu Salih in his Churches and Monasteries of Egypt and some
Neighbouring Countries.
translator

From

internal

textual

evidence (the

and editor of this important work explained in his

9

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

159

Introduction), it was clear that it had been written ‘in the first

years of the thirteenth century’

18

- in other words during the

reign of Lalibela himself. And although Abu Salih at no point
stated in which Ethiopian city he had seen the sacred relic, there

was no good reason to suppose that this city had not been Axum.
Moreover, as I re-read the relevant passage, I was struck by a few
words that I had overlooked before. Describing the transportation of the Ark on certain ceremonial occasions, the geographer
had noted that it was ‘attended and carried’ by bearers who were
'white and red in complexion with red hair'.
With a shock of genuine excitement I realized that I was
looking at a second piece of pure and early testimony suggesting
1

,

the presence of mysterious white men in Ethiopia at the time of

King Lalibela (particularly so since another authoritative transla20
tion of the same passage rendered ‘red hair’ as ‘blond hair’ ).
Alvarez had already alerted me to the old tradition that white men
had built the wonderful rock-hewn churches - a tradition that
fitted well with what I knew about the advanced architectural
skills possessed by the Templars.

Now, as though to bear out my

own evolving theory, here was Abu Salih addressing me across
seven centuries with the electrifying news that men who were
white and red in complexion, men with red or even blond hair men, in other words, who sounded very much like northern
Europeans - had been associated closely and directly with the
Ark of the Covenant itself.
The possibility that these men might have been Templars was
a very seductive one, but it still left my investigation stranded in

the early thirteenth century and

it

still left

the key questions

unanswered. If the northern Europeans seen by Abu Salih had
indeed been Templars then had they just contented themselves
with carrying the relic from time to time or had they perhaps tried
to remove it from Ethiopia and take it back to Europe? Most
important of all - if they had tried, had they succeeded?
On all these points, I had to admit, I was effectively blocked by
the absolute lack of historical information. Obsessively secretive
21

it did not really
Templars had undoubtedly been,
surprise me that their own documents and records yielded so
little. Nor was there any comfort to be gained from Ethiopian
annals: after examining a wide range of different sources, I was

as the

Holy Ark and Holy Gyail

160

forced to accept that the century after the death of King Lalibela

had indeed been a period ‘involved in darkness’, just as James
Bruce had observed. Almost nothing was known about what had
gone on in these years.
I was by now feeling extremely pessimistic about the prospects
of ever breaking the research deadlock. Nevertheless I telephoned Richard Pankhurst in Addis Ababa and asked him if
there were any records which might suggest that there had been
contacts of any kind between Ethiopians and Europeans during
the period in question.

‘None that I know of before 1300,’ he replied.
‘And how about after 1300? I suppose the first documented
European contact was with the Portuguese embassy that arrived
in Ethiopia in 1520?’

‘Not quite. A small number of missions travelled in the other
direction before that - I mean from Ethiopia to Europe. As it
happens, the very first of these was sent within a century of
Lalibela’s death - so that does put

it

into the period you’re

interested in.’
I

sat forward in

my chair: ‘Do you happen to know the exact

date?’

‘Yes, I do,’ Richard replied. ‘It was 1306, and it was quite a

large mission. It was sent by the Emperor

Wedem Ara’ad and it

had, I believe, about thirty members.’
.‘Do you remember what the purpose of this mission was?’
‘I’m not absolutely certain.

You would have to check the

source. But I do know that its destination was Avignon in the

south of France.’

A final solution?
Richard did not realize it, but he had just dropped a small
bombshell. Avignon had been the seat of Pope Clement V - who
had been crowned at Lyons in 1305 in the presence of King
Philip of France. Moreover, as I was already well aware, it had
been Clement V who had ordered the arrest of the Templars
throughout Christendom in 1307. Now I had learned that a
high-level Ethiopian delegation (the first ever to be sent to
Europe) had visited Avignon in 1306 - just a year before the

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

161

Were these dates and events clustered together by
coincidence? Or was there, perhaps, some underlying pattern of
arrests.

cause and effect? To get answers to these questions I would have
to try to establish whether the Abyssinian envoys had in fact met

with the Pope during their visit and, if they had, I would also have
to try to learn what had passed between them.

The original source of information on the 1306 mission had
been a Genoese cartographer, Giovanni da Carignano, who had
22

been active in map-making during the years 1 291-13 29. 1 was
intrigued to discover that this same Carignano had been
responsible for a major shift in European ideas about Ethiopia:
after centuries of confusion (see discussion in Chapter 4) he had
been the first authority to affirm unambiguously that ‘Prester
23

John’ ruled in Africa rather than in ‘India’.
Carignano had met with the members of the Ethiopian
embassy when they had passed through Genoa in 1306 on their
way back from Avignon to their homeland. Because of adverse

winds they had spent ‘many days’ in the Italian port and there the
cartographer had questioned them about ‘their rites, customs
and regions’. 24
Regrettably, however, Carignano’s treatise containing all the
information that the Ethiopians had given him had subsequently
been lost. All that remained of it today was a brief abstract
preserved in a Bergamese chronicle of the late fifteenth century
25
written by a certain Jacopo Filippo Foresti.
I finally managed to get my hands on an English translation of
the abstract in question. It consisted of only a single paragraph in
which Foresti praised and then summarized Carignano’s
treatise:

Amongst many things written in it about the state of [the
Ethiopians] ... it is said that their emperor is most
Christian, to whom seventy-four kings and almost

innumerable princes pay allegiance ... It is known that
year of our salvation 1306 sent
this emperor in the
presented themselves reverentially
thirty envoys [who]
26
before Pope Clement V at Avignon.
.

.

.

.

.

.

And that - apart from a few frills and the ‘Prester John’ reference

1

62

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

already mentioned - was all that was known about the first-ever

Ethiopian mission to Europe. Skimpy though the data was,

however, it did confirm my suspicion that the envoys had met
27
with Pope Clement V - and that they had done so just a year
before he authorized the mass arrests of the Knights Templar.
No information was given concerning the substance of the
meeting; nor was there the slightest hint as to why the Emperor of
Ethiopia should have been so anxious to make contact with Pope

Clement V in the year 1306.

seemed to me improbable,
however, that Wedem Ara’ad would have sent so large an
embassy on such a long and unprecedented mission if he had not
had a very strong motive indeed. I now felt at liberty to speculate
about what that motive might have been.
Opening my notebook I jotted down the following series of
propositions, conjectures and hypotheses:
It

Assume for the moment that the Templars did go from
Jerusalem to Ethiopia with Prince Lalibela in 1185- and
that they did help to install him on his throne. Assume
that the ‘white men’ said to have built the Lalibela

churches were in fact Templars. Assume also that the
‘white men’ seen acting as bearers for the Ark of the
Covenant in Ethiopia in the early 1 200s were these same
Templars.
The implication is that the order had succeeded in
winning a position of power, trust and influence with
Lalibela, and with the Zagwe dynasty to which he
belonged. If so then it would be reasonable to assume
that the last two Zagwe monarchs (Imrahana Christos and
Naakuto Laab) would also have had a good relationship
with the Templars - whom they might have continued to
grant privileged access to the Ark.

Assume that this was what happened and that during
the six decades after Lalibela’s death in 1 2 1 1 the

Templars were allowed to approach the sacred relic but
not, of course, to take it out of Ethiopia. Perhaps they

planned to take it but were simply biding their time until a
favourable opportunity presented itself. Meanwhile, as the
knights who had originally come to Ethiopia grew old the

-

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

163

order would have sent out others from the Holy Land to
replace them. There would have been no particular sense of

urgency; indeed they might have been quite content for the

Ark to stay in Ethiopia.
This state of affairs would have changed dramatically in
1 270, however, when (for whatever reasons) Naakuto Laab
was persuaded to abdicate his throne and was replaced by
Yekuno Amlak - a monarch claiming Solomonic descent.
Unlike the Zagwes, the very identity of the Solomonids was
irrevocably bound up with the Ark of the Covenant and with
the notion that Menelik I - the founder of their dynasty
had brought it from Jerusalem during the reign of King
Solomon himself. In this context it is worth remembering
that the first written version of the Kebra Nagast was
28
prepared on the orders of Yekuno Amlak. In other words,
although the legend was by then already very old in oral
form, 29 Yekuno Amlak wanted it formalized. Why? Because
it

served to legitimize and glorify his title to the throne.

From this it follows that Yekuno Amlak would have been
horrified by the presence in his country of a body of armed,
militant (and technologically advanced) foreigners like the

Templars: foreigners who could call on reinforcements
from amongst the thousands of other members of their
order in the Near East; foreigners who clearly had a special
interest in the Ark and who were possibly plotting to steal

away with it.
Assume, however, that Yekuno Amlak (new to the throne
and still insecure) initially tried to placate these powerful
and dangerous white men, perhaps by giving them the false
impression that he was willing to co-operate with them in
much the same way as the Zagwes had done. That would
have been a logical strategy - particularly since it is known
30
that his army was very small - and would explain why
nothing spectacular happened during his reign. It would
therefore have been up to his successors to seek a final
solution to the problem of how to get rid of the T emplars
and retain the Ark.
Yekuno Amlak’s son (Yagba Zion, 1 285-94) was, if
anything, even weaker than his father in military terms.

.

64

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

Yagba Zion, however, was succeeded by a much stronger
character, Wedem Ara’ad, who reigned until 1314.
Significantly it was
to Pope Clement

Wedem Ara’ad who sent a large embassy

V at Avignon in 3 06
1

Is it not possible that the purpose of that embassy was to
stir up trouble for the Templars

- and perhaps to give the

Pope and the French king (Philip IV) an urgent motive to
destroy the order? Such a motive could have been provided
by the suggestion that the knights were planning to bring the
Ark of the Covenant to France. After all, this was a period

when deep superstitions ruled the popular imagination.
With so sacred and so powerful a relic in their hands the
Templars would have been in a unique position to challenge
both the secular and religious authorities of the land - and
those authorities would certainly have taken any steps they
could to prevent such an eventuality.
This theory begins to look particularly attractive when set
against the backdrop of the arrests of the Templars in

France and elsewhere. All these arrests took place in 1307 i.e. about a year after the departure of the Ethiopian mission
from Avignon. This fits perfectly with what is known about
the behaviour of King Philip IV: there is evidence that he
began to plan his operation against the Templars about a
31
year in advance ofits implementation (i.e. in 1306) and
there is also evidence that on several occasions during that
32
year he discussed his plans with Pope Clement.
It would of course be folly to imagine that the destruction
of the Templars was occasioned only by the lobbying of the
Ethiopian envoys. Malice and greed on the part of Philip IV
also played a role (the former because the king had several
times been snubbed by the order; the latter because he
undoubtedly had his eyes on the huge sums of money
resting in Templar treasuries throughout his realm).
By the same token, however, it would be folly to imagine
that the Ethiopian mission to Avignon in 1306 had nothing
to do with the events of 1307. On the contrary it is more
than probable that there was a link - and that link, I am
convinced, was the Ark of the Covenant.

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

165

Portuguese and Scottish connections

The Templars were a rich and powerful international brotherhood of religious warriors. As such, despite the best efforts of
King Philip IV and Pope Clement V, they did not prove easy to
destroy. The suppression was most effectively and completely
implemented in France; even there, however, some brothers
managed to evade capture 33 (as did the entire Templar fleet
which slipped out of the Atlantic port of La Rochelle on the
morning of the arrests and was never seen again 34 ).
In other countries the trials and inquisitions were pursued

with much less vigour than in France; nevertheless, tortures,

imprisonments, executions, confiscation of property and the final
dissolution of the order were the end result in England (after

some considerable delay), in Spain, in Italy, in Germany, in
Cyprus and elsewhere. 35
In Portugal and Scotland, however, the Templars appear to
have escaped persecution almost completely. Indeed, circumstances were

so favourable in these countries that,

under

different disguises, the order managed to live on in both of them.

At the time when Pope Clement V issued his bull ordering the
arrests of the Templars throughout Christendom - November
1307 - Scotland was locked in a fierce struggle to preserve its
national independence against the colonial aspirations of
England. Leading this struggle was the most famous of all Scots
monarchs - King Robert the Bruce who, at the battle of
Bannockburn in 13 14, was to inflict such a crushing defeat upon
the English that his country’s freedom was guaranteed for
centuries afterwards. With all his energies focussed on the war,
Bruce had no interest whatsoever in pursuing the papal vendetta
against the Templars. He therefore only went through the
36
motions of suppressing them: just two knights were arrested
and the most that appears to have been required of the remainder
was that they should keep a low profile.
There was method in the Scottish king’s behaviour: all the
evidence suggests that he granted safe haven not only to local
Templars but also to members of the order fleeing persecution in
other lands. 37 Not naturally altruistic, it seems that he adopted
this generous policy in order to encourage fugitive knights to join

1

66

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
38

been cogently argued that a
Templar contingent did fight on Bruce’s side at Bannockburn 39
- a suggestion that looks worthy of further research when it is
remembered that the victorious Scots marched behind a tiny
Ark-shaped reliquary at that famous battle. 40
The favour that Bruce showed towards the Templars in
Scotland, and the fact that many knights escaped arrest in
England (because of a delay in implementing the papal bull
there), made it possible for the order to go underground in the
British Isles - in other words to survive in a secret and hidden
form rather than to be completely destroyed. For hundreds of
years it has been rumoured that this secret survival took the form
41 a view supported by a specific Masonic
of Freemasonry
tradition that the oldest Scottish lodge (Kilwinning) was founded
by King Robert the Bruce after the battle of Bannockburn Tor
the reception of those Knights Templar who had fled from
42
France’.
In the eighteenth century Andrew Ramsay, a prominent Scots Mason and historian, added credibility to this
tradition with a considerable body of work on the connections
between Freemasonry and the Templars. 43 And at around the
same time Baron Carl von Hund, a leading German Mason,
declared that 'Freemasonry originated in Knight Templary, and
his army.

It

has, furthermore,

that, in consequence, every Mason is a Templar.’

44

That such forthright statements should have been made in the
eighteenth century (rather than in any earlier century)

is

not

surprising: this was the period in which Freemasons finally 'came

out of the closet’ and began to talk about themselves and about
their history. 45 Subsequently, as the

new spirit of openness

encouraged further research, it became clear that 'Knight
Templarism’ was and always had been an important force within
46
the Masonic system.
This research, together with much other
material not previously uncovered, has recently been incorporated into a detailed and authoritative study which itemizes the
many ways in which Freemasonry was shaped and influenced by
fugitive Templars. 47
It is not my intention here to participate at all in what is
undoubtedly a heated, convoluted and highly specialized debate.
The point I wish to make is simply that the Masonic system did
inherit many of the most central traditions of the Order of the

.

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

167

Temple of Solomon, and that this inheritance was first passed on
in the British Isles in the years 1307-14 by Templars who had
survived papal persecution because of the specially favourable

conditions then prevailing in Scotland.

Nor, as I have already noted, was Scotland the only country in
which the Templars were left unscathed. In Portugal they were
tried but found to be free of guilt, and thus neither tortured nor
imprisoned. 48 Of course, as a good Catholic, the Portuguese
monarch (Dennis I) could not afford to ignore papal instructions
completely: accordingly lip service was paid to these instructions

and the Templars were officially dissolved in 13 12. Just six years
later, however, they were reborn under a new name: the Militia of
(also' known as the
the Order of Christ). 49

Jesus Christ
simply, as

Knights of Christ or, more

This transformation of one order into another enabled the
Portuguese Templars not only to survive the fires of the
Inquisition during the years 1307 to 1314 but also to emerge
phoenix-like from the ashes in 13 1 8 - after which date they seem
to have carried on with business very much as usual. All Templar
properties and funds in Portugal were transferred intact to the
Order of Christ, as were all personnel. 50 Moreover, on 14 March
1319, the newly formed entity received the approval and
confirmation of Pope John XXII (Clement meanwhile having
died).

51

In summary, therefore, despite the harshness of the suppression in France and elsewhere, the Portuguese Order of Christ,

and British (and especially Scottish) Freemasonry, were the
means by which Templar traditions were preserved and carried
forward into the distant future - perhaps right up to modern
times.

As my research continued I was to become increasingly sure
that one of the traditions thus perpetuated was the quest for the

Ark of the Covenant.
‘After battle like wolves and after slaughter like lions

.

Even if my theory about the Templars in Ethiopia was correct, I
knew that there was no way that I could establish what might have
happened to them in that country after the persecutions began in

1

68

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
*

Europe in 1307. Historical records from the reign of Wedem
Ara’ad were virtually non-existent. After sending his mission to
Avignon, however, my guess was that he would have stayed in
touch with developments and would have been informed of the
order's destruction. Secure in the knowledge that no further
knights could now be sent to vex him, the Emperor would then
have moved against those Templars who remained in Ethiopia
and either expelled them or wiped them out - most probably the
latter.

That, at any rate, was my working hypothesis, and probably I

would have thought no more about this aspect of my investigation
if I had not learnt about the ‘Portuguese connection’ represented
by the Order of Christ. You see, with just two unimportant
52
exceptions,
all the known early visitors to Ethiopia were
Portuguese. Moreover, this Portuguese interest in the realm of
‘Prester John’ was already pronounced within a century of the
destruction of the Templars and was, from the beginning,
spearheaded by members of the Order of Christ.
In this endeavour, the first and most active figure on whom any
solid information is available was Prince Henry the Navigator,
Grand Master of the Order of Christ and a man described by his
biographer as possessing ‘strength of heart and keenness of mind
[who] was, beyond comparison,
to a very excellent degree
ambitious of achieving great and lofty deeds.’ 53
.

.

.

Bom in 1394, and actively involved in seafaring by 1415, 54
Henry’s greatest ambition - as he himself declared - was that he

would ‘have knowledge of the land of Prester John’. 55 Chroniclers
who were his contemporaries, as well as modern historians, are in
full agreement that he devoted the greater part of his illustrious
career to the pursuit of precisely this goal.

56

Yet an atmosphere of

mystery and intrigue surrounds all his efforts. As Edgar Prestage,
the late Camoens Professor of Portuguese Language, Literature

and History at the University of London, observed:

Our knowledge of the Henrican voyages is inadequate,
and this is largely due to the adoption of a policy of
secrecy which included the suppression of facts
historical works
nautical guides, maps, instructions to
navigators and their reports. 57
.

.

.

.

.

.

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

169

Indeed, so great was the commitment to secrecy in Henry’s time

on the results of the various
exploratory voyages that were undertaken was punishable by
58
Despite this, however, it is known that the prince was
death.
obsessed with the notion of making direct contact with Ethiopia and that he sought to achieve this end by circumnavigating Africa
(since the shorter route through the Mediterranean and then into
the Red Sea via Egypt was blocked by hostile Muslim forces 59 ).
Moreover, even before the Cape of Good Hope was rounded, the
that the release of information

masters of Portuguese vessels venturing down the West African
coast were instructed to enquire after ‘Prester John’ to see

whether
overland.

it

might not be quicker

to

approach his kingdom

60

One can only speculate as to the true objective of the
Portuguese prince. The common view is that he intended - as a
‘good crusader’

61

- to forge an anti-Islamic alliance with the

Christian Ethiopian emperor. Perhaps he did. Since all serious

win the Holy Land for Christendom had been
abandoned more than a century before Henry was born,
however, I found it difficult to resist the notion that he must have
had some other motive - some hidden agenda, perhaps, that
would have accounted both for his secrecy and for his fascination
plans

to

with Prester John.

As I studied the life of the great navigator further I became
more and more certain that this motive was rooted and grounded
in his identity as Grand Master of the Order of Christ, in which
capacity he would have inherited all the mystical traditions of the
Order of the Temple of Solomon. It is notable that he immersed
himself in the study of mathematics and cosmography, ‘the
62
course of the heavens and astrology’, and that he was constantly

surrounded by Jewish doctors and astronomers 63 -men in every
way reminiscent of Wolfram’s character Flegetanis who ‘saw
hidden secrets in the constellations [and] declared there was a
thing called the Gral whose name he read in the stars without

more ado.’ 64
Another factor which suggested to me that the Portuguese
prince was profoundly influenced by Templar traditions was his
celibacy. The Knights of Christ were not bound by such strict
rules as their predecessors in the Order of the Temple.

1

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

70

%

Nevertheless, like the Templar

Grand Masters before him,

Henry ‘would never marry, but preserved great chastity [and]
remained a virgin till his death.’ 65 Likewise, I could not help but
wonder whether it was entirely a matter of coincidence that the
illustrious navigator chose to make his last will and testament on
- the 153rd anniversary of the arrests of the
13 October 1460
Templars in France (which took place on 13 October 1307).
Henry died in 1460, shortly after making his will, and it was
not until the early years of the twentieth century that certain
secret archives pertaining to the last decade of his life came to
light. Amongst these archives (details of which were published by
61

Dr Jaime Cortezao in 1924 in the review Lusitania

)

a brief note

was found to the effect that ‘an ambassador of Prester John
68
It is not
visited Lisbon eight years before Henry’s death’.
known what the purpose of this mission was, or what the prince
and the Ethiopian envoy discussed. Nevertheless, two years after
their meeting it can hardly have been accidental that King
Alfonso V of Portugal granted spiritual jurisdiction over Ethiopia
to the
‘still

Order of Christ. 69 ‘We are’, admits Professor Prestage,

ignorant of the motives that led to this concession.’

70

In the year that Henry the Navigator died - 1460 - a fitting

successor was born at Sines, a seaport in the south of Portugal.

That successor, also a Knight of the Order of Christ, 71 was
Vasco da Gama, who was to open up the Cape route to India in
1497.
It is notable that

when he set off on this famous voyage da Gama

was carrying two things: a white silk banner with the double red
cross of the Order of Christ embroidered upon it; and letters of
credence for delivery to Prester John. 72 Moreover, although his
ultimate destination

was indeed India, the Portuguese admiral

devoted a considerable part of the expedition to African exploration

and

is

reported to have wept for joy when,

at

anchor off

Mozambique, he was rightly told that Prester John lived in the
interior far to the north. 73 It was also claimed by the same
informants that the Ethiopian emperor ‘held many cities along the
74
This claim was incorrect, but da Gama’s subsequent
coast’.
stop-overs at Malindi, Mombasa, Brava (where he built a
lighthouse that still stands) and Mogadishu were in part motivated
by his continuing desire to make contact with Prester John. 75

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

171

Meanwhile, in 1487 - a decade before da Gama set off - the
Order of Christ had sponsored a different initiative also aimed at
reaching Ethiopia. In that year King John II of Portugal, then
Grand Master of the Order, had sent his trusted aide Pero de
Covilhan on a perilous journey to the court of Prester John via the
Mediterranean, Egypt and the Red Sea. Disguised as a merchant, Covilhan passed through Alexandria and Cairo to Suakin
and there, in 1488, he took ship in a small Arab barque for the
Yemeni port of Aden. He then became caught up in various
adventures which delayed him considerably. As a result it was not
76
until 1493 that he finally succeeded in entering Abyssinia.
Once there, however, he made his way immediately to the
emperor’s court where he was first welcomed but later placed
under comfortable house arrest. One can only speculate as to
why this happened, but since it is known that Covilhan’s greatest
skill was as a spy (he had previously worked as a secret agent in
Spain 77 ) it is difficult to resist the notion that the Order of Christ
may have commissioned him to gather intelligence on the
whereabouts of the Ark of the Covenant. Perhaps he aroused
suspicion by making enquiries about the sacred relic; perhaps
not. At any rate he was detained in Ethiopia for the rest of his
life.

78

Covilhan was

still

alive

when the first official Portuguese

embassy to the court of Prester John landed at the port of
Massawa in 1520 and made its way inland to meet with Lebna
Dengel, the Solomonic emperor who had been on the throne
since 1508. One of the members of this embassy was Father
Francisco Alvarez - and the reader will recall that it was Alvarez
who had been told by priests of the ancient tradition that the
rock-hewn churches of Lalibela had been ‘made by white
men’. 79
I

now turned back to the English translation of the lengthy

narrative that Alvarez had written after leaving Ethiopia in 1526.

Re-reading his chapter on Lalibela I was struck by the description he gave of the church of Saint George. Carved into the roof
of this great edifice, he said, was ‘a double cross, that is, one
80
within the other, like the crosses of the Order of Christ.’
Of course, as I already knew, the Lalibela churches had been
hewn in the time of the Templars, long before the Order of

1

72

Holy Ark and Holy G^ail

Christ was created to follow in their footsteps. It seemed logical
to suppose, however, that the cross of the Order of Christ was

derived from a design that would have been significant to the

T emplars. It was therefore intriguing to learn that this design had
been used on Saint George’s - undoubtedly the finest church in
the Lalibela complex. Casting my mind back to my own visit
there in 1983, I could not recall the double cross motif. I was
sufficiently interested, however, to look out the photographs that

had been taken on that trip; these confirmed that the description
that Alvarez had given of Saint George’s was absolutely correct:
the double cross was there.
In the mid- 1 5 20s, while the Portuguese embassy was still at
the court of Lebna Dengel, it became clear that Ethiopia would
soon come under attack from Muslim forces massing in the
emirate of Harar in the eastern part of the Horn of Africa. These
forces were led by a redoubtable and charismatic warlord,
Ahmed Ibn Ibrahim el Ghazi, whose nickname was ‘Gragn’
(meaning ‘the left-handed’).
After some years of careful preparations,

Gragn eventually

declared his holy war in 1528 and led hordes of wild Somali
troops (supported by Arab mercenaries and Turkish matchlock81

men) on a rampage into the Christian highlands. This turned
out to be no brief campaign but rather continued, year in year out,
without any remit. Across the length and breadth of Ethiopia

towns and villages were burnt, churches were destroyed, priceless treasures were looted, and thousands of people were put to
the sword.

82

Lebna Dengel had been somewhat cool towards the
Portuguese. During the six years that their embassy had been in
his country (1520-6) he had constantly stressed his own selfsufficiency, saying, in spite of the Muslim threat (which was very
apparent by 1526), that he saw no point in hastening into an
alliance with any foreign power.

83

This strangely aloof attitude, I
believe, could have been occasioned by concerns as to the true
motives of the European visitors - particularly as regards the Ark

of the Covenant.

Whatever fears the emperor may have entertained, however, it
gradually became apparent to him that Gragn posed a far greater
threat than the white men ever would - and not only to the sacred

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

173

relic but also to the very existence of Ethiopian Christendom. In

1535 the Muslims attacked Axum and razed to the ground the
ancient and most holy church of Saint Mary of Zion 84 (from
which, as I shall recount later in this chapter, the priests had
already taken the Ark to another place for safekeeping). In 1535,
too -and not by coincidence - Lebna Dengel at last overcame his

antipathy towards foreign alliances and sent an envoy to the king

of Portugal with an urgent request for military assistance. 85

Meanwhile communications between Ethiopia and Europe
had become much more difficult (because the Turks had won
control of much of the coast of the Horn of Africa as well as many

of the Red Sea ports). It took a long while for the emperor’s SOS
to reach its destination and, in consequence, it was not until 1541

450 Portuguese musketeers landed at
Massawa to lend their support to the Abyssinian army - which
appeared at that point to be utterly beaten and demoralized
(Lebna Dengel, after years on the run, had died of exhaustion
and had been succeeded by his son Claudius, then barely out of
that a contingent of

his teens).

86

Since they were armed with matchlocks, hand-guns, and
several pieces of heavy artillery, much hope was pinned upon the

intervention of the Portuguese troops.

The Ethiopian royal

chronicle for 1 541 speaks of the confident manner in which they

marched up into the highlands from the coast, praising them as
‘bold and courageous men who thirsted after battle like wolves

and

after

slaughter like lions’.

87

Nor

did

this

description

overstate their qualities: though small in numbers they fought

with inspiring valour and won a series of decisive victories. The
British historian Edward Gibbon was later to summarize their

achievements in just nine words: ‘Ethiopia was saved by four

hundred and fifty Portuguese.’

88

Significantly in my opinion, the commander of the relief force

was none other than Don Christopher da Gama, son of the
famous Vasco and, like his father, a Knight of the Order of
89
Christ. James Bruce was inordinately interested in the character of this young adventurer and described him in the following
terms:

He was brave to a fault; rash and vehement; jealous of

1

74

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

what he thought military honour; and obstinate in his
resolutions

.

.

.

[However], in a long catalogue of virtues

which he possessed to a very eminent degree, [he] had
not the smallest claim to that of patience, so very
necessary to those that command armies.

90

Knight of the Order of Christ, Don
Christopher may well have had an ulterior motive for his
operations in Ethiopia: first he would defeat the Muslims; later
he would seek out the Ark of the Covenant. His rashness and lack
of patience, however, were to cost him his life before either
objective could be achieved.
Despite overwhelming odds, he repeatedly engaged Ahmed
Gragn’s forces in battle (on one occasion, deserted by the
Abyssinians, the Portuguese faced 10,000 spearmen - and beat
them). Such feats of derring-do, however, were loaded with risks
and, in 1542, Don Christopher was taken prisoner (an eyewitness described how, shortly before his capture, he ‘had been
shot in the right knee and was fighting with his sword in his left
hand, for his right arm had been broken by another shot’ 91 ).
The Portuguese commander was first horribly tortured and
then, according to Bruce’s account of his last hours, was
I

believe

that,

as

a

brought into the presence of the Moorish general Gragn,
who loaded him with reproaches; to which he replied with
such a share of invectives that the Moor, in the violence
of his passion, drew his sword and cut off his head with
92
his own hand.
Barely a year later, however, the Muslim leader too was killed.
In a battle fought on the shores of Lake Tana on 10 February

1543 he was shot dead by a certain Peter Leon,
a man of low stature, but very active and valiant, who had

been valet de chambre to Don Christopher
The
Moorish army no sooner missed the presence of their
.

.

.

general than, concluding all lost, they fell into confusion

and were pursued by the Portuguese and Abyssinians
with a great slaughter till the evening. 93

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest
Thus,

after

fifteen

years

of unparalleled

destruction

175

and

ended the Muslim attempt to subdue the Christian
empire of Ethiopia. The costs to the Portuguese relief force were
considerable: as well as the redoubtable Don Christopher, more
than half of the original contingent of 450 musketeers were killed
in the fighting. Abyssinian casualties, of course, were far greater
(running into tens of thousands) and the cultural damage - in
terms of burnt manuscripts, icons and paintings, razed churches
and looted treasures - was to cast a shadow over the civilization of
the highlands for centuries to come.
The greatest treasure of all, however, was saved: moved out of
Axum by the priests only days before that city was burnt in 1 535,
the Ark had been taken to one of the many island-monasteries on
Lake Tana. There it was kept in safety until long after Gragn’s
death. Then, in the mid 1600s, Emperor Fasilidas (described by
Bruce as ‘the greatest king that ever sat upon the Abyssinian
throne’ 94 ) built a new cathedral of Saint Mary of Zion over the
gutted ruins of the old - and there, with due ceremony, the
sacred relic was at last re-installed in all its former glory. 95
Fasilidas did one other thing also. Despite the debt of
violence,

gratitude that his country

owed

to

the Portuguese

(whose

numbers had been allowed to increase steadily after the successful conclusion of the war with Gragn) he made it his business to
throw all the settlers out. Indeed, he seemed so wary of their
intentions that he entered into a business arrangement with the

Turks at Massawa: any Portuguese travellers arriving there and
seeking entry into Ethiopia were to be apprehended and
decapitated - with a substantial sum in gold payable for each

head thus obtained. 96

The source of a mystery
After the death of Don Christopher da Gama the intense and
focussed interest that the Order of Christ had shown in Ethiopia

seemed to come to an end. And after the reign of Fasilidas there
was no longer any way in which that interest could have been
pursued by any Portuguese.
However, as noted earlier, the Order of Christ was not the only
vehicle in which Templar traditions were perpetuated. Scottish

1

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

76

Freemasonry, too, inherited some portions of the mystical legacy
of the Temple of Solomon - in which the Ark of the Covenant
played such a central role. Because of this Scottish connection,
and because he had claimed to be a distant descendant of the king

who had welcomed the fugitive Templars in the fourteenth
century, 97 I felt that a closer investigation was warranted into the
activities of one of the most audacious and determined foreigners

ever to visit Ethiopia: James Bruce of Kinnaird.

Standing rather more than six feet four inches tall, and with a
girth to match, Bruce was a giant of a man (‘the tallest man you
ever saw gratis ’, as one contemporary described him). He was
also wealthy and well educated. Born in 1730 in the lowlands of
Scotland on the family estate at Kinnaird, he was sent at the age
of twelve to Harrow school, where his work in the classical
languages was considered excellent by his teachers. He later
completed his studies at Edinburgh University.
A period of illness followed and when he recovered he went to

London intending to take up a job offer with the East India
Company. Once there, however, he fell passionately in love with
a beautiful woman named Adriane Allan, whom he married in
1 753
Soon afterwards he joined his father-in-law’s wine-

trading business as a partner.

Tragedy followed. On a trip to France in 1754 Adriane died
suddenly and, though he remarried much later and fathered
several children, Bruce seems to have taken a long time to
recover from the loss of his first wife.
Restless and depressed, he began to travel almost continuously, learning new languages with great facility wherever he
went. His peregrinations took him first to Europe, where he
fought a duel in Belgium, sailed

down the Rhine, inspected

Roman ruins in Italy, and studied Arabic manuscripts in Spain
and Portugal. Subsequently - after his linguistic ability had been
recognized by his government - he was given a diplomatic
posting as British consul in Algiers. From there he later travelled
extensively along the North African coast, visiting the ruins of
Carthage, before journeying onwards to the Holy Land where he
explored several other ancient sites. He also found the time to
return occasionally to Scotland to attend to the family estates of

which he was now the laird, his father having died in 1758.

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

177

During this period the young Scotsman became something of
an astronomer, acquiring two state-of-the art telescopes that
subsequently went everywhere with him. He also picked up
surveying and navigational skills that would be invaluable to him

on his travels in Abyssinia.
It is not clear exactly

but there

is

when he conceived of this last adventure,

evidence that he had been planning

it

for a

considerable while (it is known, for example, that he had begun to
learn

Ge’ez

,

the classical language of Ethiopia, as early as

98

Because of such preparations, which included detailed
readings of the works of all previous travellers, he had accumulated a great deal of background knowledge about the country by
the time that he arrived in Cairo in 1768 to begin his epic
I

759

)-

journey.

What was it that inspired Bruce to go to Ethiopia? His own
account of his motives is unambiguous: he went, he said, risking
'numberless dangers and sufferings, the least of which would
have overwhelmed me but for the continual goodness and
protection of Providence’, in order to discover the source of the
Nile." Lest anyone should be in any doubt that this was indeed
his ambition he enshrined it conspicuously in the full title of the

immense book that he later wrote: Travels to Discover the Source of
the Nile in the Years 1768 7769, 7770, 7777, 7772 and 177J.
,

There is a mystery here, however, which has attracted the
attention of more than one historian (though no solution has ever
100
The mystery is this: long before he set
been proposed to it).
out for Ethiopia, James Bruce knew that the Blue Nile’s source
had already been visited and thoroughly explored by two other
Europeans: Pedro Paez and Jeronimo Lobo (both of whom were
Portuguese priests who had lived in Ethiopia in the 1600s before
the Fasilidas ban was put into effect).
As my research into the Ark of the Covenant progressed
during 1989, the mystery of Bruce’s objectives came to engage
my attention more and more. The five hefty volumes of his
Travels had become essential reference works for me because
they provided a unique picture of Ethiopian culture at a time
when that culture was still not too far separated from its own
archaic origins. Moreover, I knew the Scottish adventurer to

have been a considerable scholar, and I was impressed from the

178

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

outset by the solid accuracy of his observations and by the general

worth of his judgments and opinions on matters of history. I also
regarded him as an honest man, not overly prone to hyperbole,
exaggeration or misrepresentation. How then, I had to ask myself
- since it was clear from many of his own comments that he had
IOT
- could I
carefully read the works of both Paez and Lobo
account for the fact that he had failed co give them credit for their
102
Since I fully agreed with the subsequent
achievements?
judgment of history (namely that ‘Bruce, far from being a
103
I
found myself
romancer, was a most reliable guide’
)
increasingly puzzled by his obvious dishonesty over this crucially
important issue - a dishonesty which he compounded with the
ever saw, or
bald assertion that ‘none of the Portuguese
104
indeed pretended to have seen, the source of the Nile’.
I was soon to discover that this was not the only matter about
which Bruce had lied. On the subject of the Ark of the Covenant
he was even more evasive and deceitful. Describing his own visit
to the sacred city of Axum, he commented on the destruction by
Ahmed Gragn of the first church of Saint Mary of Zion and
added - correctly - that another had now been built in its place:
.

.

.

In it [is] supposed to be preserved the Ark of the

Covenant

.

which Menelik ... is said, in their fabulous
legends, to have stolen from his father Solomon on his
return to Ethiopia
Some ancient copy of the Old
Testament, I do believe, was deposited here
but
whatever this might be, it was destroyed ... by Gragn,
though pretended falsely to subsist there still. This I had
from the King himself. 105
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

In summary, what Bruce appeared to be saying was that the Ark

had never been brought to Axum (since the story of Menelik and
Solomon was just a ‘fabulous legend’), that the relic once stored
in the church could therefore only have been ‘some ancient copy
of the Old Testament’, and that even this relic no longer existed
since it had been ‘destroyed by Gragn’. These statements were
then backed up with the assertion that they had been corroborated by ‘the King himself.
Had it not been for that last remark I might have been content

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

179

to believe that Bruce had simply never learned of how the Ark

had been saved during the war with the Muslims, and of how it
had later been returned to Axum after the rebuilding of Saint
Mary of Zion. The claim that ‘the King himself’ had attested to
the destruction of the relic was patently false, however: in 1690 long after the Gragn campaigns and just eighty years before
Bruce’s own visit - an Ethiopian monarch had entered the Holy
of Holies of the new Saint Mary’s where he had actually seen the
Ark (thus confirming its continued existence). The monarch in
question (Iyasu the Great) had been a priest as well as a king, and
because of this he had been allowed not only to view the sacred
106
relic but also to open it and gaze inside it.
Since it is
inconceivable that the king in Bruce’s day would not have known
of this famous and unprecedented incident, I had to conclude
that the Scottish traveller was once again being ‘economical with
the truth’.

107

My conviction that this was so deepened further when
realized - contrary to his

Bruce had not

I

own statement quoted above - that

regarded the Ethiopian tradition of
Menelik, Solomon and the Queen of Sheba as a ‘fabulous
legend’. On the contrary, he had treated it with the utmost
respect. In Volume I of his Travels - some thousand pages before
in

fact

his account of his visit to

Axum - he had written at great length

about the close cultural and commercial connections between
Ethiopia and the Holy Land in early Old Testament times.

108

Here, amongst other things, he had unequivocally stated his own
view that the Queen of Sheba had been a real historical person
109
that she had indeed made her
(rather than a mythical figure),
voyage to the court of King Solomon in Jerusalem (‘there can be
IO
- most important of all - that
no doubt of this expedition’
) and
she had come from Ethiopia rather than from any other
country: ‘[Others] have thought this Queen was an Arab,’ he
convince me that she was an
concluded, ‘[but] many reasons
1

.

Ethiopian.’

.

.

111

He next went on to describe as ‘by no means improbable’

112

the account given in the Kebra Nagast of the queen’s love affair
with Solomon and the subsequent birth of Menelik. In the same

vein he then retold the story of Menelik’s own visit to Jerusalem
and ultimate return to Ethiopia bringing with him ‘a colony of

i8o

Holy Ark and Holy Grail
113

Jews, among whom were many doctors of the law of Moses’.
These events, Bruce concluded, had led to ‘the foundation of an

Ethiopian monarchy, and the continuation of the sceptre in the
tribe ofJudah down to this day

.

.

they had embraced Christianity.’
All this

.

first

when Jews, then

.

.

.

after

114

was nothing more nor less than a straightforward

precis of the Kebra Nagast in a context that granted it a great deal

of weight and historical authenticity. Strangely, however, while
covering every other major detail, Bruce at this point made
absolutely no mention of the Ark of the Covenant - an omission
that could only have been deliberate given the central and all-

pervasive role played by the sacred relic in the Ethiopian national
epic.

Once again, therefore, I was forced to conclude that the
Scottish traveller had knowingly misled his readers about the

Ark. But why should he have wanted to do that? What possible

motive could he have had? My curiosity aroused, I carefully reread his description of Axum and came across an important detail
that I had completely overlooked before: his own visit there had

taken place on 18 and 19 of January 1770.

115

This timing, I suddenly realized, could have been no accident,
for on precisely those two days he would have witnessed the
celebration of Timkat the most important festival of the
Ethiopian Orthodox Church. During this festival, and at no other
time - as I had established when I talked to the guardian-priest in
1 983 - the Ark of the Covenant was traditionally wrapped in rich
116
brocades (‘to protect the laity from it’
) and carried out in
procession. 17 Bruce had therefore chosen to be in Axum on the
single occasion in the year when, as a layman, he might have had a
,

1

reasonable opportunity to get close to the sacred relic.

was by now seriously beginning to wonder whether it had not
been the Ark all along that had lured the Scottish traveller to
Ethiopia: his claim to have gone there to find the source of the
Nile did not stand up to close scrutiny and bore all the hallmarks
I

of a ‘cover story’ intended to veil the real object of his quest.

Moreover his evasiveness on the subject of the Ark itself was
most peculiar and really only made sense if he had indeed had a
special interest in it - an interest that he had wanted to keep
secret.

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

181

Soon I learned other things that deepened my suspicions. I
discovered, for example, that Bruce had been fluent in ancient
118

- dead languages that he could
Hebrew, Aramaic and Syriac
have had no reason to learn unless he had wished to make an
intimate study of early biblical texts. Moreover, there could be no
doubt that he had made such a study: his knowledge of the Old
Testament, which shone out from nearly every page of the Travels
was described by one scriptural expert as ‘outstanding’. 119
Nor was this the only example of Bruce’s ‘more than common
120
As I already knew, he had also carried out
erudition’.
meticulous and original research into the culture and traditions
of the black Jews of Ethiopia. ‘I did not’, as he himself had put it,
‘spare my utmost pains in inquiring into the history of this
curious people, and lived in friendship with several esteemed the
121
Because of such
most knowing and learned among them.’
efforts he had managed to make a lasting contribution to the
,

study of Falasha society - a contribution that, like so much else,
did not jibe at all with his professed enthusiasm for geographical
exploration but that was entirely consistent with a quest for the
lost Ark.

telephoned the historian Belai Gedai in Addis Ababa and
asked him whether he had any views on Bruce’s motives. His
I

reply shook me: ‘As a matter of fact what we Ethiopians say is that

Mr James Bruce did not come to our country to discover the
source of the Nile. We say that he was just pretending that. We
say that he had another reason.’
‘Tell me more,’ I requested. ‘What do you think his objective

could have been if it wasn’t the Nile?’

‘The real reason he came was to steal our treasures,’ Gedai
said resentfully, ‘our cultural treasures. He took many precious

manuscripts back to Europe. The book of Enoch, for example.
Also from the imperial repository at Gondar he carried off an
ancient copy of the Kebra Nagast .’

This was news to me - but exciting news if true. I investigated
further and in due course confirmed that Gedai was absolutely
correct. On leaving Ethiopia Bruce had indeed carried the Kebra
Nagast with him - and not just the single splendid copy taken
from the imperial repository but also a copy of that copy that he

1

82

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

had made himself (his knowledge of Ge’ez the classical Ethiopic
122
Much later he gave both
language, being near-perfect
).
manuscripts to the Bodleian Library at Oxford, where they
123
remain to this day (as ‘Bruce 93’ and ‘Bruce 97’).
Nor was this all. Prior to the eighteenth century, scholars had
believed the book of Enoch to be irretrievably lost: composed
124
and considered to be one of the
long before the birth of Christ,
most important pieces of Jewish mystical literature, it was only
known from fragments and from references to it in other texts.
James Bruce changed all this by procuring several copies of the
missing work during his stay in Ethiopia. These were the first
,

complete editions of the book of Enoch ever to be seen in Europe

125
.

was of course interested to discover that Bruce had brought
back the Kebra Nagast to Europe - and that he had also gone to
the trouble of copying out the entire massive volume by hand.
This made the omission of the Ark of the Covenant in his
summary of that work look even more suspicious than I had
originally thought. Suspicions are not certainties, however. It was
therefore only when I got the full story of the Book of Enoch, and
of the service that the Scottish adventurer had performed for
schplarship in this regard, that I finally felt sure that I was on the
I

right track.
I

learned that the Book of Enoch has always been of great

significance to Freemasons, and that certain rituals dating back
to long before Bruce’s time identified Enoch himself with Thoth,

the Egyptian god of wisdom.

126
I

then found a lengthy entry in

the Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia which recorded other relevant
traditions of the order - for example that Enoch was the inventor

of writing, ‘that he taught men the art of building’, and that,
before the flood, he ‘feared that the real secrets would be lost - to
prevent which he concealed the Grand Secret, engraven on a
white oriental porphyry stone, in the bowels of the earth.’ The
entry in the Cyclcopaedia concluded with these words: ‘The Book

of Enoch was known to exist from very ancient times, and is
continually alluded to by the fathers of the Church. Bruce

brought home three copies from Abyssinia.’ 127
This brief and familiar mention of Bruce, coupled with the fact
that he had gone to such great lengths to obtain not one but three
copies of the Book of Enoch, raised the possibility that he

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest

183

might himself have been a Freemason. If so, then a solution to all
the puzzles about his evasiveness and dishonesty suggested itself.
I was already convinced that he had a special interest in the Ark of
the Covenant - an interest that he had been determined to
conceal. Now I could see exactly how he might have acquired that
interest (and why he might have wanted to keep it secret). As a
Freemason - and a Scottish Freemason to boot - he could have
been exposed to the Templar traditions concerning the Ark’s
presence in Ethiopia.
But was Bruce a Mason? Finding the answer to this question
was by no means easy. In the more than 3,000 pages of his Travels
there was not a single clue that would have enabled me even to
arrive at an informed opinion on the matter. Nor was any
enlightenment shed by the two detailed and extensive
128
biographies that had been written about him (the first in 183 6
129
and the second in 1968
).
It was not until August 1 990 that I was at last able to travel to
Scotland to visit Bruce’s family estate, where I hoped I might be
able to obtain some definitive information. I found Kinnaird
House on the outskirts of the Falkirk suburb of Larbert. Situated
well back from the main road in extensive and secluded grounds,
it was an imposing edifice of grey stone. After some understandable hesitation, its present owner -

Mr John Findlay Russell -

invited me in and showed me around. It was quite obvious from

many architectural details, however, that the building did not
date back to Bruce’s time.
‘That’s quite right,’ Findlay Russell agreed. ‘Kinnaird House

passed out of the possession of the Bruce family in 1895 and was
knocked down by its new owner, a Dr Robert Orr. He built the
present mansion in 1897.’

We were standing in an immense panelled hallway directly in
front of a broad stone staircase. Findlay Russell now pointed to

these stairs and added proudly: ‘They’re just about the only
original feature to have been preserved. Dr Orr left them in place

and built his house around them. They’re of some historic
significance you know.’
‘Oh, really? Why?’
‘Because James Bruce died on them. It was in 1794. He’d
been giving a dinner in one of the upstairs rooms and he was

184

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

escorting a guest down the stairs when he tripped and pitched

over on his head. That was the end of him. A great tragedy.’

Before leaving I asked Findlay Russell if he had any idea
whether Bruce might have been a Freemason or not.
‘No,’ he said. ‘No idea at all. Of course I take a great interest in

him, but I wouldn’t claim to be an expert.’
I nodded, disappointed. As I was walking out of the door,

however, another question occurred to me: ‘Do you happen to

know where he’s buried?’
‘Larbert Old Church. You’ll have a job finding the

tomb

though. There used to be a great iron obelisk raised up over it,

but that was pulled down some years ago because it was rusting
away. It was considered a danger to the public.’
The drive to the church took only ten minutes. Locating the
last resting place

of one of Scotland’s greatest explorers took

much longer, however.
was a miserable, rainy afternoon and I grew more and more
depressed as I hunted up and down the rows of gravestones. As a
personality, there was no doubt that Bruce had had many failings.
Nevertheless, I felt strongly that this brave and enigmatic man
deserved some lasting monument: it seemed shameful that he
should have been left to lie in a completely unmarked patch of
It

ground.
After I had thoroughly searched the main cemetery and found
nothing, I noticed a thickly overgrown area surrounded by a low

stone wall set into which was a small gate. I opened this gate and

then walked

down a flight of three steps which led ... to a

rubbish tip. Piles of old clothing, discarded shoes, tin cans and
bits

of broken furniture lay scattered around amidst dense

patches of stinging nettles and brambles. Several massive trees
locked branches overhead and their intertwined leaves formed a
dripping green canopy that allowed very little light to penetrate.

Cursing the swarms of midges and wasps that rose up to greet
me, I proceeded to stamp down as much of the vegetation as I
could. I had looked everywhere else, I reasoned, so I might as
well look here too. I had almost given up hope, however, when
finally, in the centre of the enclosure, I stumbled upon several
solid stone slabs laid flat on the ground and completely covered
with moss, lichen and vile nettles. With a sense of reverence - but

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest
also of anger -

I

185

cleared the slabs as best I could and gazed

down at them. There was nothing to say that they covered
Bruce’s remains but, somehow,

I

felt

sure that they did.

Involuntarily a lump rose in my throat. Here lay a man - a great

man - who had preceded me to Ethiopia. Moreover, if my guess
about his Masonic connections was correct, then there could be
little doubt that he had gone to that far country in quest of the lost
Ark. Now, however, it seemed that I might never be able to prove
those connections.

The only thing that was certain was that

Bruce was lost himself - lost and forgotten in the land of his birth.
I stayed there for a while, thinking my gloomy thoughts. Then I
left the little enclosure, not by the gate through which I had
entered it but rather by clambering over the surrounding wall
into a courtyard beyond. There, almost immediately, I saw
something interesting: lying on its side quite close to where I
stood was an enormous metal obelisk. I approached and found
that James Bruce’s name was engraved upon it, together with the
following epitaph:

His life was spent performing useful and splendid actions.

He explored many distant regions.
He discovered the fountains of the Nile.
He was an affectionate husband, an indulgent parent,
An ardent lover of his country.
By the unanimous voice of mankind his name is
Enrolled with those who were conspicuous

For genius, for valour, and for virtue.

What I found most exciting of all about the obelisk was that it was
intact - not rusting and crumbling - and that it was covered with

Someone, clearly, was still taking an
interest in the explorer - enough of an interest to have had his
monument restored, though not yet set up over his grave again.
fresh red primer paint.

Later that afternoon I made enquiries with the church
authorities and discovered the identity of the mysterious benefactor. It seemed that the obelisk had been taken away for repairs
some years previously and had only been returned to Larbert the

day before my own arrival. The restoration work had been
organized and paid for by no lesser person than the titular head of

1

86

Holy Ark and Holy Grail

the Bruce family in Scotland - the Earl of Elgin and Kincardine,

himself a Master Mason.

130

This was a promising lead and I followed it all the way to
Broomhall, the beautiful estate just north of the Firth of Forth
where Lord Elgin lived. I telephoned first - the Broomhall
number was not ex-directory - and made an appointment for
Saturday morning, 4 August.
‘I can’t give you more than about fifteen minutes,’ the earl
warned.
‘Fifteen minutes will be enough,’ I replied.
Elgin turned out to be a short, stocky, elderly man with a
pronounced limp (apparently the result of injuries received while
a prisoner of the Japanese during the Second World War).
Without much ceremony he ushered me into a splendid drawing
room dominated by family portraits and suggested that I get
straight to the point.

So far his manner had been a little abrupt. As we talked about
Bruce, however, he softened - and it gradually became clear to
me from his detailed and extensive knowledge that he had made a
close study of the life of the Scottish explorer. At one stage he

took me into another room and showed me several shelves filled
with old and esoteric books in many different languages. ‘These

were from Bruce’s personal library,’ he explained. ‘He was a man
of very wide interests ... I also have his telescope, his quadrant
and his compass ... I can look them out for you if you like.’
While all this was going on, the quarter of an hour I had been
promised had turned into an hour and a half. Spellbound by
Elgin’s enthusiasm, I had somehow still not managed to ask him
the question that had brought me here. Now, quite suddenly, he
glanced at his watch and said: ‘Gosh, look at the time. Em afraid
you’ll have to go. Things to do
Em off to the Highlands this
afternoon. Perhaps you can come back on some other occasion?’
.

‘Er

.

.

.

.

.

yes. Ed like that very much.’

At this, beaming graciously, the earl stood up. I stood too and
we shook hands. I felt distinctly foolish but I was determined not
to leave without satisfying

my curiosity.

you don’t mind,’ I said, ‘there’s one other thing I
particularly wanted to ask you. It’s to do with a theory Eve been
developing about the motives that led Bruce to make his
‘If

A Secret and Never-Ending Quest
expedition to Ethiopia. Do you happen to know
I

.

.

.

er

.

.

.

um

187

.

.

.

mean is there any chance, any possibility at all, that he might

have been a Freemason?’
Elgin looked slightly amazed. ‘My dear boy,’ he replied. ‘Of
course he was a Mason. It was a very, very important part of his
life.’

V

Part III: Ethiopia, 1989-90

Labyrinth

Chapter 8

Into Ethiopia

On my visit to his estate in Scotland, the Earl of Elgin confirmed
that my suspicions about James Bruce were correct: the explorer
had indeed been

a

Freemason

(a

member

of Canongate

Kilwinning Lodge No. 2 in the city of Edinburgh).
Elgin also told me that Bruce had been very much involved in
the ‘speculative’ side of Freemasonry - as distinct from the more
pragmatic and mundane ‘craft’ Masonry. This meant that he
would have cultivated an interest in the esoteric and occult
traditions of the brotherhood - traditions, including ‘Knight
Templarism’, that most modern Masons neither knew nor cared
anything about.
I should add, at this point, that I had never felt that all Masons
would have had access to the Templar legacy; on the contrary, it
was reasonable to suppose that such access would at all times
have been restricted to a very few people.
Bruce, however, looked like an ideal candidate for membership of that privileged group. With his extensive knowledge of the
Scriptures, his scholarly attraction to mystical works such as the

Book of Enoch, and his ‘speculative’ leanings within the Masonic
system, he was precisely the kind of man

who would have

investigated Templar traditions concerning the last resting place

of the Ark of the Covenant.
After

my meeting with Lord Elgin, therefore, I felt more

confident than ever that it had been the Ark all along, rather than
the Nile, that had lured the Scottish adventurer to Ethiopia in

1768.

His

paradoxical

dishonesty

on

certain

(paradoxical because he was normally so truthful)

key

issues

now made

sense to me; his evasiveness and secrecy were now explained. I

192

Labyrinth

might never know what mysteries he had uncovered in the
Abyssinian highlands all those many years ago; now, however, I
could at least be reasonably sure about his motives.
It had been in the summer of 1989 when I had first begun to
wonder whether Bruce might have been a Mason, but it was not
until August 1990 that I had my discussion with Lord Elgin.
Meanwhile, as recounted in the last chapter, I had followed up
the ‘Portuguese connection’ represented by members of the
Order of Christ who had travelled to Ethiopia in the fifteenth and
sixteenth centuries.
All the evidence that I had unearthed seemed to point in the

direction of a continuing quest for the Ark - a covert venture that

had drawn travellers hailing from quite different historical
periods and from different lands towards the same lofty and
enduring goal. Moreover, if this had been the case in centuries
past then might it not still be the case today? Might not others be
seeking the Ark in Ethiopia just as I was? As my research
progressed I kept an open mind on this question while continually adding to my files on people like James Bruce and
Christopher da Gama. Even without the stimulus of competition,
however, my findings during the spring and summer of 1989 had
convinced me that it was high time for me to return to Ethiopia to
add some detailed field work to what had hitherto been primarily
an intellectual exercise.

Difficult times

took this decision as early as June 1989, but several months
were to elapse before I was finally able to implement it. Why?
I

Because on 1 9 May of that year a violent coup had been attempted
in Addis Ababa throwing the whole of Ethiopia into turmoil.
The government of President Mengistu Haile-Mariam survived, but only at great cost. After the dust had settled one
hundred and seventy-six rebellious officers were rounded up and
arrested, including no less than twenty-four generals, amongst
them the Commander of Ground Forces and the Chief of
Operations. Rather than be captured and face trial, the Armed
Forces Chief of Staff and the Commander of the Air Force
committed suicide. Eleven other generals were killed in the

Into Ethiopia

193

fighting and the Minister of Defence was shot dead by the coup
plotters.

The consequences of this ugly bloodbath were to haunt
Mengistu and his regime for a very long while to come: with the
officer corps effectively gutted, the military’s

decision-making
capacity was reduced virtually to zero, a state of affairs that
quickly translated itself into reverses on the battlefield. Indeed,
in the months immediately following the coup , the Ethiopian army

suffered a series of crushing defeats that ended in

its

total

expulsion from the province of Tigray (which the TPLF declared
a ‘liberated zone’) and from most of Eritrea as well (where the

EPLF was already laying in place the structures for an independent state). The fighting also spread with alarming rapidity into
other areas - including north-east Wollo, where the ancient city

of Lalibela was overrun in September 1989, and Gondar, where
the regional capital was besieged.

from my own selfish
perspective, was that the government was no longer in control of
Axum. Indeed, as noted in Chapter 3, the sacred city had been
seized by the TPLF at the end of 1988, some months before the
attempted coup. I had at first hoped that this would be a temporary
state of affairs. As the dismal events of the second half of 1989
began to unfold, however, I had to face up to the possibility that
the guerillas might be able to hold on to Axum indefinitely.

The worst setback of all,

at

least

This, of course, left me with the option of approaching the

TPLF in London and trying to win their co-operation in getting
into the areas that they now administered. I was, however, not

ready to pursue this option immediately. My own long-standing
connections with the Ethiopian government meant that the
Liberation Front would regard any overtures from me with
intense suspicion.

One possible outcome, unless I played my

cards very cleverly indeed, was that they would point-blank

my request to go to Axum. But frankly 1 was more
concerned about the safety of my skin if they did agree to take me
refuse

known friend of the hated Mengistu regime wasn’t there a
chance, on the long and dangerous road into Tigray, that some
local guerilla commander might decide I was a spy and have me
shot - even if the London office had cleared me for the visit?
in: as a

In the post -coup atmosphere nothing could be certain in

194

Labyrinth

Ethiopia; no plans could be made with any degree of confidence;

and there was no way of predicting what might happen from one
week to the next. Any number of dramatic developments looked
theoretically possible - not least the fall of Mengistu and a
complete victory for the combined forces of the EPLF and the
TPLF. I decided, therefore, that I would focus my efforts on
other aspects of my research until a clearer picture had emerged.
It was thus not until November 1989 that I finally returned to
Ethiopia.

A secret hiding place?
The information that precipited my return was provided to me by
the Very Reverend Liqa Berhanat Solomon Gabre Selassie. I
first encountered the

man who owned this extremely long name

in London on 12 June 1989, at which time I discovered that he

also had an extremely long and full grey beard, nut-brown skin,

twinkling eyes, splendid ceremonial robes, and

- suspended

around his neck - an elaborate wooden crucifix. Archpriest of the
Saint Mary of Zion Ethiopian Orthodox Church in the United
Kingdom, he was, in fact, a missionary. He had been sent to
Britain some years previously by the Patriarchate in Addis Ababa
in order to spread the Orthodox message. Moreover he had
succeeded in winning a number of converts, mainly young
Londoners of West Indian origin, some of whom he brought
with him to our meeting - which I had arranged in order to pump

him for information about the Ark.
Archpriest Solomon was, for me, the very image of an Old
Testament patriarch. The venerable beard, the sagacious and yet
slightly roguish manner, the charismatic personality leavened
with genuine humility, and the absolute conviction of a deeply
held faith all added irresistibly to this impression.
It quickly became clear to me as we talked that he possessed an
unshakable belief that the sacred relic was indeed in Ethiopia. An
intelligent and obviously highly educated man who spouted out
biblical references with an assurance born of a lifetime of study,
he expressed this view firmly and calmly and refused to accept
that there was any possibility at all that he might be mistaken.

On a sheet of paper in front of me I took careful notes as he

Into Ethiopia

195

forcefully reiterated this point: the original Ark of the Covenant

which had been constructed at the foot of Mount Sinai to contain
the tablets of stone bearing the Ten Commandments -- that very

same pure and authentic object now rested in Axum. Furthermore, he insisted, it still had ‘its powers, thanks to the Grace of
God' and was, in addition, ‘protected by the entire population of
Tigray’. ‘It remains today’, he concluded, ‘in the safe hands of

the church and Christian people who are constantly seen around

the church’s compound.’

wrote down a list of fifteen
wanted him to answer in detail. When his

Before the archpriest
questions that

I

left,

I

my home by post in mid-July,
however, I was far away in Egypt. On my return some weeks later
considered replies arrived
I

at

barely glanced at the ten pages of mixed handwriting and

typescript that he had sent me. Indeed I was so busy analysing

and working through the Egyptian material I had gathered that I
didn’t even bother to send him a note of thanks.
In an idle moment in early November I finally turned my
attention to the document which I had placed in the ‘pending’
tray on my desk more than three months previously. I found that
contained point-by-point responses to all my fifteen questions.
Some of the answers, furthermore, were both intriguing and

it

provocative.

For example, I had asked whether the alleged ‘supernatural’
powers of the Ark had ever been harnessed by the rulers of
Ethiopia to bring victory in war. The Bible made it clear that this
1

had been done on several occasions in ancient Israel. If the Ark
was really in Ethiopia, therefore, wasn’t it logical to suppose that
this tradition would have been maintained?
‘In the teaching of our Church’, Solomon had replied, ‘God is
the only power in the universe. He is the creator of all existing
life, visible and invisible. He himself is the uncreated eternal
light, which gives us light and power and grace. There is,
however, a tangible dimension in which we can understand the
relation between God and the Ark, for since the Ark contains the
ten sacred words of the Law, written by God, the gift of His
holiness cannot be diminished within it. Up to this day, therefore,
His grace still rests upon the Ark, so by the name of God it is holy
and of great spiritual significance.’

196

Labyrinth

The former

*

answer
continued, had known this. Since their prime function was to
protect and defend the Orthodox Christian faith they had, during
the many wars fought over the passing centuries, made use of the
Ark from time to time ‘as a source of spiritual strength against the
The King would rally the people for battle and the
aggressors
priests would stand as on the day when Joshua carried the Ark
around the city of Jericho. Likewise our priests carried the Ark,
chanting and going into battle in the glory of God.'
This use of the sacred relic as a war palladium - and as an
effective one at that - was not, according to Archpriest Solomon,
just something that had happened in Ethiopia’s distant past. On
the contrary: ‘As recently as 1896 when the King of Kings
Menelik the Second fought against the Italian aggressors at the
battle of Adowa in Tigray region, the priests carried the Ark of
the Covenant into the field to confront the invaders. As a result of
this, Menelik was very victorious and returned to Addis Ababa
.

.

rulers

of Ethiopia,

the

archpriest's

.

in great honour.’
I

re-read this part of the reply with considerable interest

because I knew that Menelik II had indeed been ‘very victorious’
in 1896. In that year, under the command of General Baratieri,
17,700 Italian troops equipped with heavy artillery and the latest
weapons had marched up into the Abyssinian highlands from the
Eritrean coastal strip intent on colonizing the whole country.
Menelik’s forces, though ill prepared and less well armed, had
met them at Adowa on the morning of 1 March, winning in less
than six hours what one historian had subsequently described as
‘the most notable victory of an African over a European army
2
since the time of Hannibal’. In a similar tone, the London
Spectator of 7 March 1896 commented: ‘The Italians have
suffered a great disaster
greater than has ever occurred to
white men in Africa.’
The tantalizing hint that the Ark had been used at Adowa
raised in my mind the half-serious possibility that it might still be
being used today - perhaps by the TPLF, who now had control of
Axum and who, like Menelik II, had certainly been very
victorious in recent months. Solomon, however, did not speculate about this in his written answers. Instead (in his reply to a
question that I had asked concerning the security of the Ark in
.

.

.

Into Ethiopia

197

the sanctuary chapel during the current all-out war being fought

between government and rebel forces) he went on to suggest a
completely different scenario.

When I had talked to him in June he had seemed confident that
the sacred relic was still in its usual place, ‘protected by the entire

population of Tigray’. Now he did not seem so sure. ‘There have

been very infrequent occasions’, he explained, ‘during periods of
great violence and tribulation, when the guardian monk, who
watches the Ark day and night until he dies, has been obliged to
cover it up and bring it out of Axum to safety. We know, for
instance, that this happened in the sixteenth century when Tigray
was invaded by the Muslim armies of Ahmed Gragn and most of
Axum was destroyed. Then the guardian took the Ark to the
monastery of Daga Stephanos, which stands on an island in Lake
Tana. There it was hidden in a secret place.’
It was the archpriest’s conclusion that really caused me to sit
up and pay attention. Under the present circumstances of war
and chaos in Tigray, he said, it was quite possible that the
guardian could have taken the Ark out of Axum again.

Two lakes, two islands
flew back to Addis Ababa on Tuesday 14 November 1989,
arriving on the morning of Wednesday 15 November. Despite
I

the continuing fighting in almost all parts of northern Ethiopia, 1

was quite clear in my own mind about the objectives of this trip. If
Archpriest Solomon’s analysis was correct, I reasoned, might not
the sacred relic believed to be the Ark of the Covenant be resting
even now on the monastic island of Daga Stephanos - in that
same ‘secret place’ to which it had been taken in the sixteenth
century?

This, furthermore, was not the only location in which it might
have been concealed. I also remembered very well that Dr Belai

Gedai had told me in one of our several long-distance telephone
conversations of another, earlier tradition concerning the saving
of the Ark during the uprising of Queen Gudit in the tenth
century. At the time, the Ethiopian historian had explained, it

had been brought to one of the islands on Lake Zwai.
I had therefore come to Ethiopia to check out both Lake Tana

198

Labyrinth

and Lake Zwai: the former lying in the war-torn north, though
still in an area controlled by the government; the latter in safer
territory about two hours’ drive to the south of Addis Ababa.
I felt a tremendous sense of urgency during my first few days in
the Ethiopian capital. I had left England less than a week after
reading Archpriest Solomon’s answers to my questions, and the
reason why I was in such a hurry was quite simple: though Lake
Zwai was secure enough, for the present at least, there was
absolutely no guarantee that Lake Tana was going to remain in
government hands for very much longer. Rebel forces, I knew,
had surrounded the fortress city of Gondar, which stood some
thirty miles to the north of the vast lake. Meanwhile, sporadic
artillery and hit-and-run attacks had also been directed against
the port of Bahar Dar on the southern shore. Since the only way
for me to reach Daga Stephanos was through Bahar Dar I felt
that I had no time to lose.
There could be no question of going through the normal
bureaucratic channels to arrange the internal travel permit.

Accompanied by my old friend Richard Pankhurst, who had
taken a few days off from the Institute of Ethiopian Studies in

order to help me out, I therefore went along to a meeting with one

of my highest-ranking contacts - Shimelis Mazengia, Head of
Ideology and a senior member of the ruling Politburo of the

Workers’ Party of Ethiopia.

A tall slim man in his forties who spoke fluent English,
Shimelis was a committed Marxist but also one of the most

His power
within the regime was considerable and I knew him to have a
genuine enthusiasm for the ancient history of his country. I
therefore hoped that he might be persuaded to use his influence
to back the research that I wanted to do - and in this I was not
disappointed. After I had outlined my project to him he agreed
readily to my proposed field trips to Lake Tana and to Lake Zwai.
The only condition was that my stay in the Tana area should be
kept as short as possible. ‘Do you have a schedule in mind?’ he
intelligent and cultured of the Politburo members.

asked.

my diary and, after a moment’s thought, proposed
Monday the 20th for my departure to Lake Tana: ‘I’ll fly to
I pulled out

Bahar Dar, hire a launch from the Maritime Authority, visit Daga

Into Ethiopia

199

Stephanos and then come back to Addis on - say - Wednesday
the 22nd. That should give me enough time ... If it’s
with
you Ed then like to drive down to Zwai on Thursday the 23rd.’
Shimelis turned to Richard: ‘And will you be going as well,

OK

Professor Pankhurst?’
‘Well, if it is acceptable ... of course I would like very much to
go.’

‘Certainly it is acceptable.’

Shimelis then telephoned the Headquarters of the National
Security Police in Addis Ababa and spoke rapidly in Amharic to

someone in authority. After he had hung up he told us that our
permits would be ready for collection that afternoon.

‘Come back and'see me next Friday,’ he said, ‘after you have
finished at Lake Tana and Lake Zwai. You can make an
appointment with my secretary.’

We left the Party building in high spirits.
would be so easy,’ I said to Richard.

‘I

never thought it

Chapter 9

Sacred Lake

The morning flight from Addis Ababa to Bahar Dar on the
southern shore of Lake Tana took about an hour and a half.
Despite the fighting reported in the area, no special procedures
were observed during the landing, and the plane made a low,
slow, scenic approach over the Blue Nile Falls before touching

down on the bumpy gravel strip. From there, after hiring a taxi,
Richard Pankhurst and I motored the few remaining kilometres
into town along roads lined with jacaranda and flame trees.
We checked into two of the hundred empty rooms at the Tana
Hotel on the lake’s edge and then drove to the Maritime
Authority pier where the motor launch that we hoped to use was
moored. After protracted negotiations with the officials concerned it was eventually agreed that we could charter the boat but not until the next day, Tuesday 21 November, and then only
if we were prepared to pay the piratical hire of 50 US dollars an
hour. Since I had no other choice I grudgingly accepted this
extortionate figure and asked that the vessel should be made
ready for a 5 a.m. departure.
With time to kill that afternoon we drove out of Bahar Dar to the
nearby village of Tissisat and then hiked through tawny countryside
overlaid with a patchwork of fields until we came to a massive stone
bridge thrown across a steep gorge. Built by the Portuguese in the
early seventeenth century, this crumbling edifice looked highly
dangerous; Richard assured me, however, that it was still serviceable. We crossed it, and climbed a hillside - at the top of which two
militiamen suddenly appeared out of a clump of shrubbery. They
searched us, looked at our passports (classically, mine was
examined upside down) and then waved us on.

Sacred Lake

201

Fifteen minutes later, after negotiating a narrow goat- track
lined with thick tropical shrubbery and yellow daisies, we began
to sense a low, thundering vibration underfoot.

We walked on,

aware of an increasing dampness in the air, and in a short while
caught a first glimpse of what we had come to see - the
spectacular basalt cliff over which, with tremendous power, the
Blue Nile hurls itself before embarking on its epic journey out of
the Abyssinian highlands.

The local name for the Blue Nile Falls, and for the village
through which one must approach them, is Tissisat, meaning

As I stood enraptured, gazing at the
rainbows playing amongst the fine spumes of spray thrown high
‘water that smokes’.

into the air by the boiling cataract, I could well understand why.

was also reminded - and struck by the accuracy - of the
description given by the Scottish explorer James Bruce after his
I

visit here in

The river

1770:

.

.

.

fell in one

sheet of water, without any

interval, above half an English mile in breadth, with a

force and a noise that was truly terrible, and which

stunned and made me, for a time, perfectly dizzy. A thick
fume, or haze, covered the fall all around, and hung over
the course of the stream both above and below, marking
its track, though the water was not seen ... It was a most
magnificent sight, that ages, added to the greatest length

of human life, would not deface or eradicate from my
memory; it struck me with a kind of stupor, and a total
oblivion of where I was, and of every other sublunary
concern.

1

Ethiopia, I reflected, was a country in which time really could

stand still: there was nothing at all, in the scene now laid out
before me, which suggested that more than two centuries had
elapsed since Bruce had been here. Not for the last time I felt a

deep sense of empathy with the Scottish traveller whose family
name I happened by coincidence to share (through the maternal
line - my grandmother was born a Bruce, and Bruce, too, is my
own middle name).
Later, surrounded by crowds of local children who had

202

Labyrinth

materialized from nowhere in order to demand money, pens and
sweets, Richard and I set off on the walk back towards Tissisat

Thus far there had been something almost idyllically
peaceful and rustic about the afternoon; even the militiamen who

village.

had searched us earlier had done so lethargically and with good
humour. Now, however, as we re-crossed the Portuguese bridge
with the first chill of evening setting in, we were confronted by an
incongruous and jarring spectacle: at least three hundred heavily
armed soldiers dressed in green battle fatigues advancing
towards us from the other direction.
It was impossible to be sure whether we were looking at
government or rebel troops. They wore no regimental insignia,
nor any other identifying paraphernalia. Neither did they appear
to be disciplined or even under the command of an officer: rather
than being organized into a discernible marching order they
slouched oafishly along with angry and resentful glares. I also
noticed that a number of the men were carrying their weapons
very sloppily: one used his rifle as a walking stick; another held an
AK-47 barrel-forwards across his shoulder; a third was loosely
waving a loaded rocket launcher which, if fired accidentally,
could have demolished a fair-sized building - or, for that matter,
the bridge we were all standing on.
Richard, whose Amharic is better than mine, greeted several
individual members of this surly rabble in a familiar manner,
shook hands heartily with perhaps a dozen more, and made
eccentric gestures of friendship towards most of the rest. ‘They
think all foreigners are slightly mad,’ he explained to me in a stage
whisper. ‘I’m just living up to the stereotype. Believe me, it’s the
best thing to do.’

The Jewel of Ethiopia
The next morning we arrived at the Maritime Authority pier at 5
a.m. There was no sign of activity and Richard, who was wrapped
in a blanket against the cold,
‘

muttered something about the

maambfak syndrome’.
‘What’s that?’ I asked.

‘Many appointments are made but few are kept,’ the historian
grumbled.

Sacred Lake

203

MV

Within half an hour, however, the captain of the
Dahlak
had arrived. So too had a clean-shaven young man in a well cut
suit who introduced himself as Wondemu and informed us, with
great humility, that he was the Second Deputy- Assistant
Regional Administrator: ‘Yesterday afternoon my boss received a
phone call from Comrade Shimelis Mazengia in Addis telling
him that we should look after you. I immediately reported to your
hotel but you were not present. Then from Reception I learned
about this research you are conducting today. So,’ he concluded
with a broad smile, ‘here I am.’

By 5.45, shivering in the dawn chill, we were on the water and
making good headway towards Daga Stephanos some twenty
miles to the north. Above the mountains ringing the eastern
shore of the huge lake the sun was already rising. A fresh breeze
carried the sounds of birdsong and of barking dogs.

Before too long Richard and Wondemu disappeared into the
cabin to chat and drink

Entranced by the view, by the
invigorating Alpine quality of the air, and by the romance of
travel, I remained on deck gazing out at the ever-shifting
lacustrine panorama and fretting subliminally about exactly how
much this little pleasure cruise was going to cost me. To reach
Daga, the captain had said, would take about two and a half
hours. Since we would need to be on the island for at least that
long and would then require a further two and a half hours to get
back, it looked like I was going to end up shelling out almost 400
tea.

dollars.

was interrupted in this slightly depressing piece of mental
arithmetic by the striking spectacle of two native long boats with
high, curved prows pulling out towards us from the distant shore.
I

Silhouetted in the pink light of the early sun I could discern five
or six men crouched down inside each vessel wielding paddles

which, in unison, they raised and dipped into the water, raised

and dipped, raised and dipped.

Known as tankwas I remembered from my previous visit in
1983 that local craft such as these were a common sight on Lake
Tana. The two now running briefly parallel to us, but heading in
the opposite direction, were much larger than any that I had seen
,

before. Nevertheless they were clearly of the same basic design,

being made of bundles of papyrus reeds bound together.

Labyrinth

204

Having spent a considerable fraction of the previous few
months studying archaeological sites in Egypt I was now able to
confirm with my own eyes something which I knew that several
historians had already observed - namely that the Ethiopian
tankwas bore an uncanny resemblance to the reed boats used by
the Pharaohs for transportation, hunting and fishing on the
2
Nile 1 had seen representations of high-prowed vessels just like
these in frescoes decorating the tombs in the Valley of the Kings
and also in reliefs carved into the temple walls at Karnak and
.

Luxor.

Not for the first time I found myself wondering whether the
ancient Egyptians had ever visited the Tana area. It was not just
the similarity in boat design, suggestive as it was of a strong
cultural influence, that led me to this speculation, but also the
lake’s importance as the principal reservoir of the Blue Nile.

Tana is not itself officially regarded as the source of that great
river, identified as twin springs, in the mountains to the south,

that were visited by Bruce and by other travellers before him. 3 At

these springs rises a river known as the ‘Little Abai’ which flows
across the southern edge of the lake (there

a discernible

is

current) and then out again as the ‘Big Abai’, the local name for

the Blue Nile.

To all intents and purposes, however, as geographers and
engineers now accept, 4 the Blue Nile’s real source is Lake Tana,

which is fed not only by the ‘Little Abai’ but also by many other
rivers, thus draining a huge expanse of the Abyssinian highlands.
Indeed, with a surface area of 3,673 square kilometres, this vast
inland sea provides an estimated six-sevenths of the total volume

of water in the combined streams of the Blue and the White
Niles. 5 Most important of all, it is Ethiopia’s long rainy season -

which causes a veritable flood to race out of Lake Tana and along
the Blue Nile - that has been responsible since time immemorial
for the annual inundation that brings silt and fertility to Egypt’s
Delta. By comparison the longer White Nile - which loses more
than half of its volume in the swamplands of southern Sudan contributes almost nothing.

6

As I sat watching the papyrus-reed tankwas therefore, it
seemed to me inconceivable that the priests of Karnak and Luxor
- who worshipped the Nile as a life-giving force and also,
,

Sacred Lake

205

symbolically, as a blessed god - would not at some stage in their

long history have made their way to Ethiopia. There were no
records to prove this, just another hunch; but nevertheless, in the

numinous dawn glow of that November morning, I felt confident
that the ancient Egyptians must at some point have visited Tana
- and venerated it.
Certainly the Greek geographer Strabo, who lived around the
time of Christ and who was deeply versed in Egyptian learning,
was aware (as later scholars were not) that the Blue Nile rose in a
giant lake in Ethiopia, a lake which he called ‘Pseboe’. 7 In the
second century ad the Egyptian geographer Claudius Ptolemy
expressed a similar opinion, although the name that he gave to
Tana was ‘Coloe’. 8 I also thought that the Athenian dramatist
Aeschylus might have been inspired by more than just poetic
fancy when he wrote hauntingly in the fifth century bc of ‘a
copper-tinted lake
that is the jewel of Ethiopia, where the
all-pervading sun returns again and again to plunge his immortal
form, and finds a solace for his weary round in gentle ripples that
are but a warm caress.’ 9
These, I knew, were not the only references linking the
.

.

.

mysterious waters of Lake

Tana to the ancient cultures of

Greece, Egypt and the Middle East. As I sat on the deck of the
Dahlak en route to Daga Stephanos I also remembered that
the Abyssinians themselves firmly believed the Blue Nile to be
nothing less than the Gihon of Genesis 2:13 — ‘the second river’
that ‘compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia’. This, furthermore,
10
almost certainly pre-Christian, and
was a very old tradition,
thus added considerable weight to the notion that the lake,
together with its rivers and islands, might indeed have some
genuine connection with the Ark of the Covenant.
It was therefore with a certain flush of optimism that I looked
ahead, across the intervening miles, to the green slopes of Daga
island rising above the shining waters like the peak of some

MV

submerged mountain.

Daga Stephanos
was around 8.30 when we finally moored at Daga. The sun was
now high in the sky and, despite the altitude (Tana stands more
It

206

Labyrinth

*

than 6,000 feet above sea level), the morning was hot, humid

and breathless.
We were met on the wooden jetty by a delegation of monks
dressed in astonishingly dirty robes. They had obviously been
monitoring our approach for some time but did not appear to be
in the least bit pleased to see us. Wondemu had a word with
them and eventually, with obvious reluctance, they led us
through a small banana plantation and then up a steep, winding
path towards the summit of the island.
As we walked I stripped off the pullover I had been wearing,
stretched my arms and took a few deep breaths. The track that
we were following passed through the midst of a dense forest of
tall gnarled trees, the leaves of which formed a canopy above us.
The air was laden with the loamy scent of freshly turned earth
and with the fragrance of tropical flowers. Bees and other large
insects buzzed industriously about and, in the distance, I could
hear the monotonous ringing of a traditional stone bell.
Eventually, some 300 feet above the surface of the lake, we
began to come across low round buildings with thatched roofs ~
the dwellings of the monks. Next we passed under an arch set
into a high stone wall and finally entered a grassy clearing at the
centre of which stood the church of Saint Stephanos. This was
a long rectangular structure, curved at the ends, with a covered

walkway extending all around it.
‘Doesn’t look all that old,’ I said to Richard.

he replied. ‘The original building was burnt down in
a grass fire about a hundred years ago.’
‘I suppose that would have been the one that they brought the
‘It isn’t,’

Ark to in the sixteenth century?’
‘Yes. In fact there’s probably been

some sort of church on

thousand years. Maybe even for longer
than that. Daga is reckoned to be one of the holiest places on
Lake Tana. Because of that the mummified bodies of five
former emperors are kept here.’
Wondemu, in his self-appointed role as our guide and
interlocutor, had been talking quietly to some of the monks.
Now he detached one member of the group - whose vestments
were slightly cleaner than those of his fellows - and led him by
the hand towards us. ‘This,’ he announced proudly, ‘is
this site for at least a

Sacred Lake

207

He will answer all your

Archpriest Kifle -Mariam Mengist.
questions.’

The archpriest, however, seemed to have ideas of his own on
His wrinkled, prune-like features registered a
curious mixture of hostility, resentment and greed. In silence he
sized Richard and me up, then turned to Wondemu and
whispered something in Amharic.
,’
Ah
sighed our guide, ‘I am afraid he wants money. It is to
purchase candles, incense and
er
other necessary church
this

subject.

4

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

items.’

‘How much?’ I asked.
‘Whatever you feel is appropriate.’
I proposed 10 Ethiopian birr - about
5 US dollars - but
Kifle-Mariam indicated that this sum was not sufficient. Indeed,
he declared, the proffered note was so lacking in the quality of
sufficiency that he could not even bring himself to detach it from

my fingers.
‘I think

you should pay more,’ Wondemu hissed politely in my

ear.

be happy to do that, of course,’ I said. ‘But I’d like to know
what I’ll be getting in return.’
‘In return he will talk to you. Otherwise he says he has much to
‘I’ll

do.’

We settled, after further debate, on 30 birr. The money was
quickly folded and conjured away in some noisome fold or pouch

Then we strolled over to the arcade
surrounding the church and sat down in the shade beneath the

in the priestly robes.

overhanging eaves of the thatched roof. Several of the other
monks followed us and lurked about looking self-consciously
contemplative and pretending not to listen to our conversation.
Kifle-Mariam Mengist began by telling us that he had been on
the island for eighteen years and had become an expert on all
matters concerning the monastery. As though to prove this point
he then launched into a kind of potted history - which went on,

and on, and on.
‘Right,’ I interrupted after

Wondemu had given me the drift of

this boring speech. ‘I do want to get a general picture. But first I’d
like to ask the archpriest a specific question - which is this: I’ve

heard it said that the Ark of the Covenant was brought here in the

208

Labyrinth

sixteenth century when

Axum was attacked by the armies of

Ahmed Gragn. Does he know this story? And is it true?'
Fifteen or twenty minutes of incomprehensible argument
followed, at the end of which Wondemu announced that the
priest definitely did not know the story. Moreover, since he did

not know it, he was not able to tell us whether it was true or not.

‘Do they have a tabot of their own?
Here. Inside this church?’ Through the open doorway behind us
I pointed expressively towards the entrance of the Holy of Holies,
which was just visible in the gloom within.
After
another
Amharic question-and-answer session
tried a different tack.

I

Wondemu announced: ‘Yes. Of course they have their tabot.'
‘Good. Well I’m glad we’ve established that at any rate. Now,
ask him this: does he accept that their tabot is a copy - a replica of the original tabot in Axum?’
‘Perhaps,’ came the enigmatic reply.
‘I see.

OK. Well in that case I’d like you to ask him whether he

knows anything at all about the Ark of the Covenant. How it
came to Axum. Who brought it. Things like that. Get him to tell
us the story in his own words.’

An immediate and perfunctory response was given to this
question. ‘He says he does not know the story,’ Wondemu
translated rather mournfully. ‘He says he is not an authority on

such matters.’
.‘Is there anyone else who is?’ I asked in exasperation
‘No. Kifle-Mariam Mengist is the senior priest on the island.
If he does not know then it is impossible that anyone else will
know.’
I looked at Richard: ‘What’s going on here? I’ve never, never
ever met an Ethiopian priest who didn’t know the Kebra Nagast
story about the Ark.’
The historian shrugged: ‘Nor have I. It’s very peculiar.
Perhaps you should offer him ... a further inducement.’
,

I groaned. It always

came down to money in the end, didn’t it?

If a few more birr was what it would take to get this tight-lipped

old bastard talking, however, then it would be best to pay up
quickly. After all, I’d come all the way from London to check

Daga Stephanos out - and even now the MV Dahlak was moored
at the jetty with its meter running at the rate of approximately a

Sacred Lake
dollar a minute. With grim resignation

I

209

passed over another

small handful of crumpled notes.

This latest act of generosity, however, did me absolutely no
good at all. The priest had nothing further to say on any subject
of interest. When this had finally sunk in - and it took some
time - 1 leaned back against one of the pillars that supported the
roof, inspected my fingernails, and tried to decide what to do
next.

There were,

two possible explanations for the
apparent ignorance of Kifle-Mariam Mengist. One, the least
realized,

I

man was genuinely stupid. The other, more

likely, was that the

probable by far, was that he was lying.
But why should he lie? Well, I reasoned, there were two
possible explanations for that as well. The first - and the least
likely - was that he had something important to hide. The second

- more probable by far - was that he wanted to extract further
notes from my rapidly diminishing wad of Ethiopian currency.
I stood up and said to Wondemu: ‘Ask him again. Ask him if
the Ark of the Covenant was brought here from Axum in the
sixteenth century

.

.

.

and ask him whether it’s here now. Tell him

make it worth his while if he’ll show it to me.’
Our guide raised a quizzical eyebrow. What

I’ll

I

had

just

proposed was not in good taste. ‘Go on,’ I urged. ‘Just ask him.’
More Amharic, then this from Wondemu: ‘He says the same
as before. He does not know about the Ark of the Covenant. But
he also says that nothing has been brought to Daga Stephanos
from outside for a very long time.’
The group of monks who had been standing in a semi-circle
eavesdropping on my conversation with Kifle-Mariam Mengist
dispersed at this point. One of them, however - barefoot,
toothless and dressed in such poor rags that he would have
passed for a beggar on any street in Addis Ababa - accompanied
us as we walked back down the steep track to the jetty. Before we
climbed on board the launch he pulled Wondemu aside and
whispered something in his ear.
‘What was that?’ I asked sharply, expecting a further demand
for payment of some kind.
Money, however, turned out not to be the issue this time.
Wondemu frowned: ‘He says that we should go to Tana Kirkos.

2io

Labyrinth

%

Apparently we will learn something about the Ark there

.

.

.

something important.’
‘What’s Tana Kirkos?’
‘It is

another island

.

.

.

east of here. Quite far.’

‘Ask him to tell us more. What does he mean by something
important?’

Wondemu put the question again and translated the answer.
‘He says that the Ark of the Covenant is on Tana Kirkos. That is
all he knows.’

My first reaction to this astonishing piece of news was to roll
my eyes heavenwards, tug distractedly at my hair, and kick the
side of the launch. Meanwhile the monk, whom I wanted more
information from, had hobbled back along the jetty and vanished
into the banana grove.
I looked at

my watch. It was now almost noon. We had been out

of Bahar Dar for six hours, or 300 dollars.
‘Is

Tana Kirkos on our way back?’ I asked Wondemu.

‘No,’ he replied, ‘I have never been there. No one ever goes
there. But I know it is more or less due east. Bahar Dar is south.’
‘I

see. Any idea how long it will take us?’

‘No. I shall ask the captain.’

Wondemu did that. It would take us about an hour and a half.
‘And after that, how long back to Bahar Dar?’
‘About three more hours.’
I

did some rapid calculations in my head. Say two hours on

Tana Kirkos, plus an hour and a half to get there, plus three
hours to Bahar Dar
that’s six and a half hours. Call it seven,
.

.

.

plus the six we’ve already had. That’s, let’s see, thirteen hours.
Thirteen bloody hours! At fifty bucks an hour. Six hundred and
fifty dollars
I

minimum. Christ!

fulminated inwardly for some time longer. Eventually,

however - with a heart as heavy as my wallet was light - 1 made up

my mind to go.
Of course the Ark wouldn’t actually be on Tana Kirkos. I knew
that. In fact the most likely scenario was that I would be given the

run-around again, just as on Daga Stephanos. Money would be
extracted from me in dribs and drabs until the point was reached
where I was obviously not prepared to hand over any more. Then
another tantalizing little hint would be dropped naming yet

1

Sacred Lake

21

another island - and off I would go, banknotes at the ready, to
enrich yet another community of needy anchorites.

James Bruce,

I

remembered, had been

to

Tana

in

the

eighteenth century. ‘There are forty-five inhabited islands in the
lake,’

he had written, ‘if you believe the Abyssinians, who, in

everythihg, are very great liars

.’
.

TI

.

Tana Kirkos
was not in a receptive frame of mind when we arrived at Tana
Kirkos. Nevertheless, as I stood in the bows of the MV Dahlak
scowling at the island ahead, I had to admit that it was a beautiful
and unusual place. Completely covered in dense green shrubbery, flowering trees and tall cactus plants, it rose steeply from
the water to a high peak on which I could just make out the
thatched roof of a circular dwelling. Hummingbirds, kingfishers
and bright blue starlings darted through the air. On the shore of a
small sandy bay, on a makeshift jetty, stood a group of monks.
I

Smiling.

We dropped anchor and clambered out of the boat. Wondemu
did the usual round of introductions and explanations. Hands

were shaken. Lengthy greetings were exchanged. Finally we
were led up a narrow, overgrown path cut out of the side of a grey
cliff, through an archway at the top - again hewn out of the bare
stone - and finally into a clearing containing three or four
dilapidated buildings and a dozen ragged monks.
Set back behind natural rock walls, the grassy space in which
we stood was enclosed, silent and dark. The light that did
penetrate, filtered as it was through the overarching trees and
bushes, seemed muted and green. Against my better judgment, I
began to suspect that there might be something worth seeing
here after all. I could not have explained why, but Tana Kirkos
felt ‘right’ in a way that Daga Stephanos had not.
The senior priest now arrived and introduced himself,

through Wondemu, as Memhir Fisseha. He was lean and
smelled of incense. He did not ask for money, but he did ask
whether or not we had security clearance.
I was nonplussed by such a question, coming as it did from a
traditional figure in clerical robes.

212

Labyrinth

‘As a matter of fact,’ I said, ‘yes we do.’ I pulled from my pocket
the permit we had obtained from the security police in Addis and

gave this to Wondemu, who in turn passed it to Memhir Fisseha.

The old man - were all priests in Ethiopia so old? - studied the
document with an abstracted air and then handed it back to me.
He seemed to be satisfied.
Wondemu now explained that I wanted to ask some questions
about Tana Kirkos and about the Ark of the Covenant. Would
that be OK?
‘Yes,’ the priest replied, rather sadly I thought.

He directed us

to the doorway of what, from the blackened pots and pans lying

inside, appeared to be a kitchen. Here, on a small stool, he sat

down, indicating that we should join him.
‘Do you believe,’ I began, ‘that the Ark of the Covenant was
brought from Jerusalem to Ethiopia by Emperor Menelik I?’
‘Yes,’
I

Wondemu translated.

heaved a sigh of relief. This was already much better than

Daga Stephanos.
‘I

have heard a story’, I continued, ‘that the Ark is now here -

on the island of Tana Kirkos. Is that story true?’

An anguished expression crossed Memhir Fisseha’s leathery
face as he answered: ‘It was true.’

Was true? What on earth did that signify? ‘Get him to
elaborate,’ I barked at Wondemu in some agitation. ‘What does
he mean by was true?’

The priest’s response excited and distressed me in roughly
equal measure: ‘It was true. But the Ark of the Covenant is not

here any longer. It has been taken to Axum.’

‘Taken back to Axum!’ I exclaimed. ‘When? When did they
take it?’

An intense discussion followed in Amharic, with the main point
obviously being clarified several times. Finally Wondemu translated: ‘The Ark was taken to Axum one thousand six hundred years
ago, in the time of King Ezana. It was not taken back. It was simply

taken there, and it has stayed there ever since.’
I felt

perplexed and frustrated. ‘Let me get this clear,’ I said

after a moment’s thought. ‘He’s not telling us that the Ark was

here recendy and has now gone back to Axum, is he? He’s telling
us that it went there a very long time ago.’

Sacred Lake

213

‘Exactly. One thousand six hundred years ago. That is what he
says.’

‘OK, then ask him this. How did the Ark get here in the first
place? Did it come here from Axum, and then go back there? Or
was it here before it was ever taken to Axum? That seems to be
what he means, but I want to be absolutely sure.’
Slowly and painfully the story emerged. Extracting it was like
extracting the stump of a rotten tooth from an inflamed gum.
Several times consultation was required with the other monks
and once a huge, leather-bound book written in ancient Ge’ez
was referred to and a passage read out.
In summary, what Memhir Fisseha told us was that the Ark
had been stolen from the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem by
Menelik I and his companions. They had brought it out of Israel,
he explained, and into Egypt. Then they had followed the Nile first the Nile and afterwards its tributary the Takazze - until they
had reached Ethiopia.
This, of course, was the tradition of the theft of the Ark
reported in the Kebra Nagast What came next, however, was
.

completely new.

Looking for somewhere safe and appropriate where they
might install the precious relic, the old priest continued, the
travellers had come to Tana. At that time, he said, the entire lake
was sacred. It was dear to God. A holy place. So they had come to
Tana, to its eastern shore, and they had chosen this island, now
called Kirkos, as the resting place for the Ark.

‘How long did it stay here?’ I asked.
‘For eight hundred years,’ came the reply. ‘It blessed us with
its presence

for eight hundred years.’

‘Was there a building? Was it put into some sort of temple?’
‘There was no building. The Holy Ark was placed inside a
tent. And it stayed within that tent, here on Tana Kirkos, for
eight hundred years. We were Jews then. Afterwards, when we
became Christians, King Ezana took the Ark to Axum and placed
it in the great church in that city.’
‘And you say the Ark was taken to Axum one thousand six
hundred years ago?’
‘Yes.’

‘So if it was on Tana Kirkos for eight hundred years before

214

Labyrinth

that, then - let’s see - it must have arrived here something like

two thousand four hundred years ago. Is that right? Are you
telling me it came here about four hundred years before the birth
of Christ?’
‘Yes.’

‘You do know that 400 bc was a long time after Solomon - who
was supposed to be Menelik’s father? In fact Solomon would
have been dead for about five centuries by then. What do you say
to that?’
‘I

say nothing. I have told you our tradition as it is recorded in

our sacred books and in our memory.’

A remark that the priest had made a few moments earlier had
interested me enormously, and I now picked him up on this: ‘You
told me that you were Jews then? What did that mean? What kind

of religion did you have?’
the sacrificial
‘We were Jews. We performed sacrifice
lamb. And we continued with this practice until the Ark was
taken from us to Axum. Then Abba Salama came and he taught
us the Christian faith, and we built a church here.’
Abba Salama, I knew, was the Ethiopic name for Frumentius,
the Syrian bishop who had converted King Ezana and the entire
Axumite kingdom to Christianity in the 330s ad. This meant
that the periods of time that Memhir Fisseha had given me made
sense - or at least were internally consistent. The only contradiction was the huge gap between the known dates for Solomon mid 900s bc - and the date that the Ark had supposedly been
brought to Tana Kirkos (which, if I subtracted eight hundred
.

.

.

years from 330 ad, would have been 470 bc).
I

pressed on: ‘Before Abba Salama came and taught you

Christianity you had no church here?’

‘No church.
sacrifice.’

I

told you.

We were Jews. We performed

He paused, then added: ‘The blood from the lamb was

collected in a bowl ... a gomer. Then it was scattered over some
stones, some small stones. They are here still, up to this day.’
‘Sorry. Come again. What are here to this day?’

‘The stones that we used for sacrifice when we were Jews.

Those stones are here. On the island. They are here now.’
‘Can we see them?’ I asked. I felt a tiny thrill of excitement. If
what Memhir Fisseha had just said was true, then he was talking

Sacred Lake

215

about physical evidence - real physical evidence to support the
strange but curiously convincing story that he had told.
‘You can see them/ he replied. He got to his feet. ‘Follow me. I
will show you.’

Scattering the blood

The priest led us to a high point on the cliff edge near the summit
of the island, overlooking Lake Tana. Here, on a raised plinth
made of natural unhewn rock, he showed us three short stone

grouped closely together. The tallest of the three perhaps a metre and a half high - was square in section, with a
cup-shaped declivity hollowed out in its top. The remaining two
were each about a metre high, circular in section, and as thick as a
man’s thigh. At the top they also had been hollowed out to a
depth of approximately 10 centimetres.
Though copious quantities of green lichen grew on them I was
able to establish that the three pillars were all monoliths, that they
were freestanding, and that they had been carved from the same
type of grey granite. They looked old, and I asked Richard for his
opinion on this.
‘Of course,’ he replied, ‘I’m not an archaeologist. But I would
say from the way they are cut, the style - particularly the square
one ... I would say they are at least from the Axumite period, if
pillars

not earlier.’
I asked

Memhir Fisseha what the cup-shaped declivities were

for.

‘To contain blood,’ was his answer. ‘After the sacrifice, some
was scattered over the stones and some on to the tent that
contained the Ark. The remainder was poured into these
hollows.’

‘Can you show me how it was done?’
The old priest beckoned one of the other monks and gave him
an instruction in a low voice. He strode off and returned a few
minutes later carrying a wide but shallow bowl so corroded and
tarnished with age that I could not even guess of what metal it was
made. This, we were told, was the gomer in which the sacrificial
blood was first collected.
‘What exactly does gomer mean?’ I asked Wondemu.

216

Labyrinth

He shrugged: ‘I don’t know. It is not an Amharic word, nor
Tigrigna.

does not sound like it belongs to any Ethiopian

It

language.’

looked to Richard for enlightenment but he confessed that he
was not familiar with the word either.
Memhir Fisseha said simply that it was called a gomer and had
I

always been called a gomer and that was all he knew. He then
positioned himself next to the stones with the bowl in his left

hand, dipped into it with his right forefinger, swept his right hand
above the level of his head and commenced an up-and-down
motion. ‘The blood was scattered in this way,’ he said, ‘over the
stones and over the tent of the Ark. Afterwards, as I told you,

what was left was poured thus.’ He then tipped the bowl sideways
above the cup-shaped hollows in the tops of the pillars.
I asked the priest if he knew where exactly on the island the
Ark had been kept in its tent. All he would say, however, was
‘near here
somewhere near here’.
I then sought clarification of our earlier discussion: ‘You told
me that it was taken from Tana Kirkos to Axum one thousand six
hundred years ago. Is that correct?’
Wondemu translated the question. Memhir Fisseha nodded
.

.

.

affirmatively.

‘OK,’ I continued. ‘Now what I want to know is this: has it
ever been brought back here? At any time, for any reason, has the
Ark ever come back to this island?’
‘No. It was taken to Axum and it stayed in Axum.’
‘And as far as you are aware it is still there to this day?’
‘Yes.’

No further information seemed likely to be forthcoming, but I
was more than satisfied with what I had got - particularly since
the information given had at no point been bartered for money.
Grateful for this I handed over a ioo birr note as a voluntary
contribution to the monastery’s expenses. Then, with Memhir
Fisseha’s permission, I set about photographing the sacrificial
pillars from a variety of different angles.

'

We were back in Bahar Dar shortly before eight that evening.
We had been out and about on Lake Tana for more than fourteen
hours and the final bill for the hire of the

750 US dollars.

MV Dahlak came to

36

The Blue Nile Falls near Lake Tana, Ethiopia.

37 Papyrus-reed boat on Lake Tana

38 Hollowed stones on the island of Tana Kirkos, said to have been used
to contain blood during sacrifices in the presence of the Ark of the
Covenant. The monks claim that the Ark remained on their island for
eight hundred years before being taken to Axum.

39

Qemant High Priest, centre, in dark cloak.
The Qemant, a pagan tribe whose religion nevertheless contains strong
elements of Judaism, say that they came to Ethiopia ‘from the land of
Canaan.’

40 Falasha priest at the village of Anbober, near Gondar, photographed in
1990. A year later almost all of Ethiopia’s Falasha population had been
airlifted to Israel.

4i

Falasha priest displaying a copy of the Torah
witten in Ge ’ez, the ancient liturgical language

of Ethiopia. The illumination shows the prophet

Moses holding the Ten Commandments.

42 and 43
Christian priests at Gondar
carrying Tabots on their heads

during the Timkat ceremony.

WBmBssm
lijlllllllll

1HI

44 Christian priests performing
the dance of David before the Ark
during the Timkat ceremony at Gondar.

45

Timkat reveller in
traditional warrior’s head-dress.

46 Ethiopian priests with sistra. Musical instruments
exactly like these were used in religious ceremonies in
Israel in Old Testament times.

47

The medieval castle and baptismal pool
that provide the focus for the climax

of the Timkat ceremony in Gondar.

Sacred Lake

217

had been, by any standards, a costly day. I no longer
begrudged the expense, however. Indeed, the doubts that had
beset me so forcefully on Daga Stephanos had been completely
banished by Tana Kirkos and I felt that I could now continue the
quest with a renewed sense of commitment and optimism.
This positive mood received a further boost back in Addis
Ababa. There, before I set out for the planned trip to Lake Zwai
on Thursday 23 November, I had the opportunity to visit the
University Library and examine a number of references concerning the use of sacrificial stones in Old Testament Judaism.
What I discovered was that pillars similar to those that I had
seen on Tana Kirkos had been associated with the very earliest
phases of the religion - both in Sinai and in Palestine. Known as
masseboth they were set up as altars on high places and were used
12
for cultic and sacrificial purposes.
It

,

I then looked in the Bible to see if I could find any specific details

concerning the proper performance of sacrifices in Old Testament
times. I did find such details and, as I read and re-read the relevant

passages, I realized that what Memhir Fisseha had described to me

on the island had been an authentic and very ancient ceremony. No
doubt much had become muddled and confused in the memories of
the tradition that had been handed down from generation to
generation. When he had talked about the scattering of blood,
however, he had been astonishingly close to the mark.
In Chapter 4 of the book of Leviticus, for example, I came
across this verse: ‘And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood,
and sprinkle of the blood seven times before the Lord, before the
13
Likewise in Chapter 5 I read: ‘And he
veil of the sanctuary.'
shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the
altar; and the rest of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of
14
the altar.'
It

was not

until

I

turned to the Mishnah, however, the

compilation in written form of early oral Jewish law, that

I

realized just how authentic Memhir Fisseha’s account in fact had

been. In the tractate known as Yoma in the second division of the
,

Mishnah, I found detailed descriptions of the sacrificial rituals
carried out by the High Priest within Solomon's Temple in front
of the curtain that shielded the Ark of the Covenant from the gaze
of the laity.

218
I

Labyrinth

%

read that the blood of the victim - whether lamb, goat, or

bullock - was collected in a basin and given ‘to one that should
stir it up ... so that it should not congeal’.

Then the priest, having

emerged from the sanctuary, ‘took the blood from him that was
stirring it and entered again into the place where he had entered
and stood again on the place whereon he had stood, and
sprinkled the blood once upwards and seven times downwards.’

15

And

where, exactly, did the priest sprinkle this blood?
According to the Mishnah he sprinkled it ‘on the curtain outside,
opposite the Ark, once upwards and seven times downwards, not
as though he intended to sprinkle upwards or downwards, but as
He then sprinkled the
though he were wielding a whip
cleansed surface of the altar seven times and poured out the
16
residue of the blood.’
It seemed to me highly improbable that Memhir Fisseha had
ever read the Mishnah. As a Christian he would have no reason
to do so; nor would he have had access to such a book on his
remote island; nor could he have understood any of the
languages into which it had been translated. Yet his hand
movements, when he had shown me how the scattering of the
blood was done, had been precisely those of a man wielding a
whip. And he had spoken confidently of the blood being poured
not only upon the altar stones but also ‘on the tent of the Ark’.
The correspondences were too close to be ignored and I felt
sure that at some time in the distant past an object of great
religious significance had been brought by Jews to the island of
Tana Kirkos. Despite the chronological inconsistency in the
supposed date of its arrival, there was also every reason to
suppose - as Memhir Fisseha himself had so obviously believed
- that that object might indeed have been the Holy Ark of the
Covenant.
.

.

.

Chapter io

Ghost in a Maze

During the discussions on Tana Kirkos a comment that the
priest had made to me just before he had got to his main point had
aroused my curiosity. That comment - the implications of which
I now wanted to investigate further in the library at the Institute
of Ethiopian Studies - had been to do with the route that the Ark
had followed on its journey to Ethiopia. After being stolen from
the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem, the priest had said, it had
first been carried into Egypt and from there had been brought to
Lake Tana byway of the Nile and the Takazze rivers. Despite all
the research that I had done during the previous few months, I
realized that I had never given serious consideration to the
question of Menelik’s itinerary. I therefore wanted to see what
the Kebra Nagast had to say on the matter. I also wanted to know if
there was anything in it that specifically contradicted the priest’s
assertion that the Ark had spent eight hundred years at Tana
Kirkos before being taken to Axum.
The only relevant information that I could find in the great
epic was contained in Chapter 84. There it was reported that
Menelik and his travelling companions had brought the sacred
relic to a place called Debra Makeda after their arrival in
Ethiopia. To my surprise there was no mention of Axum
whatsoever. ‘Debra Makeda’, wherever it might have been, was
1

clearly and unambiguously highlighted as the Ark’s first home in

Ethiopia. At a stroke this cleared up one of the more serious

had bothered me since 1983 namely that the city of Axum had not been founded until about
eight hundred years after the date of Menelik’s supposed
2
journey. Several of my original informants had told me that
factual inconsistencies that

220

Labyrinth

Axum had been the final destination of that journey and that the
Ark had been lodged there from the outset 3 - which, of course,
would have been historically impossible. Now, however, I could
see that the Kebra Nagast made no such claim and said only that
Menelik and his companions had brought the relic from
Jerusalem to ‘Debra Makeda’. I knew that the word ‘debra’
meant ‘mountain’ and that ‘Makeda’ was the name given in
Ethiopian tradition to the Queen of Sheba. ‘Debra Makeda’
therefore meant ‘Mount Makeda’ - the Queen of Sheba’s
mountain.
In the Kebra Nagasfs brief description I saw nothing to suggest
that this ‘Queen of Sheba’s Mountain’ might actually have been
Tana Kirkos. By the same token, however, I could find nothing
that ruled that possibility out. Seeking further clues I then
referred to an authoritative geographical survey of Lake Tana
carried out in the 1930s and learned that ‘Kirkos’ was a name
that had been given to the island in relatively recent times (in

honour of a Christian saint). ‘Before the conversion of Ethiopia
to Christianity,’ the survey added, ‘Tana Kirkos was called Debra
Sehel. 4 The obvious question immediately formed itself in my
mind: what, exactly, did Sehel mean?
To find out I consulted several of the scholars who were then
studying in the library. They told me that it was a Ge’ez word
’

rooted in the verb ‘to forgive’.

‘Would

assuming that a correct
translation of the full name Debra Sehel would be something like
I

be

right’,

I

asked,

‘in

“Mount of Forgiveness”?’
‘Yes,’ they replied. ‘That is correct.’

Now this was interesting. In Wolfram von Eschenbach’s
Parzival as I remembered very well, the location of the Grail
,

castle - and of the Grail Temple - was given as Munsalvaesche 5
.

There had been some debate over the exact interpretation of this
word Munsalvaesche more than one Wolfram expert, however,
had suggested that behind it lay ‘the biblical Mons Salvationist
;

Mount of Salvation’. 6
There could be no doubt that the notions of ‘forgiveness’ and
‘salvation’ were linked - since in order to be ‘saved’, in the
religious sense, one must first be ‘forgiven’. Moreover, as Psalm
who
130 puts it: ‘If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities
.

.

.

Ghost in a Maze
shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee

221

Let Israel hope
in the Lord: for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is
plenteous redemption

'

.

.

.

1

8

‘Redemption’ is, of course, a close synonym for ‘salvation ’. I
therefore could not help but wonder whether Wolfram’s ‘Mount
of Salvation’ might not in some way have been associated with
Ethiopia’s ‘Mount of Forgiveness’ - now known as Tana Kirkos.
I was fully aware that speculation of this kind could only ever
be tenuous and that it was a long jump indeed from Debra Sehel to
Munsalvaesche. Nevertheless, after my many readings of Parzival
I could hardly forget that the mystical Grail Temple (‘smooth and
rounded as though from a lathe’ 9 ) had stood on a lake - and quite
10
Nor did it seem entirely
possibly on an island on that lake
irrelevant that Ethiopian Orthodox churches and Falasha places
11
- as were the
of worship were traditionally circular in shape
majority of Templar churches (including several still standing to
this day such as the twelfth-century Temple Church off
London’s Fleet Street). I therefore felt that there were certain
correspondences in all of this which it might be unwise for me to
ignore entirely (though it would be equally unwise to read too
,

.

much into them).
Meanwhile there was another and rather less tentative link to
consider - that between Debra Sehel and Debra Makeda. As the
former name of Tana Kirkos made clear, Ethiopian islands could
acquire the prefix Debra (meaning ‘Mount’). And, indeed - rising
steeply to a high peak that towered above the surface of the lake
-Tana Kirkos had looked to me very much like a mountain when
I had first set eyes on it. This certainly did not prove that the
Kebra Nagast had been referring to Debra Sehel when it had
spoken of the Ark being taken to the Queen of Sheba’s mountain.
I

reasoned, however, that it did at least elevate the island to the

status of a candidate for that distinction.

With this established, I moved on to consider the question of
the route that Menelik and his companions had followed on their
journey. Previously I had always assumed that the travellers had
gone by ship - from Solomon’s port of Eziongeber (modern Elat
12
on the Gulf of Aqaba), and thence down the Red Sea to the
Ethiopian coast. Now, as I pored over the copy of the Kebra
Nagast provided to me by the librarian, I discovered that my

222

Labyrinth

earlier assumption had been quite wrong. Menelik’s long journey

from Jerusalem had involved a substantial caravan and had been
13
overland throughout
But what overland route had been followed? The description
of the trek given in the Kebra Nagast had the dreamlike,
miraculous and surreal quality of imaginative storytelling, in
which recognizable place names and geographical features were
not easy to find. Nevertheless there were some details that were
both specific and important. After leaving Jerusalem the travellers had first made their way to Gaza (on Israel’s Mediterranean
coast, where a city of that name still exists). From there,
presumably following the well established trade route across the
14
they had crossed into
northern edge of the Sinai peninsula
Egypt where, not long afterwards, they had arrived at a great
river: ‘Let us let down the wagons,’ they said at this point, Tor we
have come to the water of Ethiopia. This is the Takazze which
15
floweth down from Ethiopia and watereth the valley of Egypt .’
It was clear from the context that Menelik and his companions
were still in ‘the valley of Egypt’ when they uttered these words and probably not far south of the site of modern Cairo. The river
beside which they had let down their wagons could therefore only
have been the Nile. What was striking, however, was that they
had immediately identified it with the Takazze - the same great
Ethiopian tributary that the priest had mentioned to me on Tana
.

,

Kirkos.

From the librarian I obtained an atlas and traced the Takazze’s
course with my fingertip.

found that it rose in Abyssinia’s
central highlands not far from the ancient town of Lalibela, took a
winding path in a north-westerly direction through the Simien
mountains, merged with the Atbara in the Sudan, and finally
joined the Nile proper some hundreds of miles to the north of the
modern city of Khartoum (which stands at the confluence of the
Blue and White Niles).
Looking at the map I could immediately see two other things:
first that the Nile - from an Ethiopian perspective - might easily
have come to be regarded as an extension of the Takazze 16
secondly that it would have been entirely sensible for the caravan
carrying the Ark of the Covenant to have followed the Nile and
then the Takazze in order to reach Ethiopia. The alternative
I

;

Ghost in a Maze

223

would have been to proceed much further southwards through
the hostile deserts of the Sudan as far as the confluence of the two
Niles and then to follow the Blue Nile into the highlands.
However - since the latter river makes a wide curving detour to
the south before turning north again towards Lake Tana - this
would have required an unnecessarily lengthy expedition; the
Takazze route, by contrast, was the best part of a thousand miles
shorter.

The map made something else clear as well: a group of
travellers following the Takazze to its headwaters would, near the

end of their journey, have reached a point less than seventy miles
from the eastern shore of Lake Tana. And Tana Kirkos lay not
far off that same eastern shore. There was thus no mystery
surrounding the tradition that the little island had been the first
resting place of the Ark in Ethiopia: indeed, casting around for
somewhere safe and close to install the sacred relic, Menelik and
his companions could hardly have made a better choice.

Three men in a boat

The next morning when Richard Pankhurst and I travelled to Lake
Zwai we were accompanied by an old friend of mine, Yohannes
Berhanu, the General Manager of the state-owned National Tour
Operation. The three of us met up just before 6 a.m. at the

NTO

Yohannes had thoughtfully provided a chauffeurdriven Toyota Landcruiser. Twenty minutes later we had left the
slums and skyscrapers of Addis Ababa behind and were rumbling
along the broad highway that led south through the town of Debra
offices, where

Zeit into the heart of the Great Rift Valley.

Discounting the Koka reservoir, which is man-made, Lake
Zwai is the northernmost of Ethiopia’s string of Rift Valley lakes.
It has a surface area of some two hundred square miles and a
maximum depth of about fifty feet. Oval in shape, it is studded
with islands and has marshy shores overgrown with reeds that
provide an ideal habitat for storks, pelicans, wild ducks, geese
and fish eagles - as well as for great numbers of hippopotami.
Our destination, after the two-hour drive from Addis Ababa,
was a jetty on the southern side of the lake. Here we had been told
that the Ministry of Fisheries owned and operated a number of
boats, one of which would surely be provided for us at minimal

224

Labyrinth

cost. Predictably, however, all the larger vessels had gone fishing.

Only a single small motorboat was available - and there was no
fuel for its outboard engine.

A lengthy palaver followed with the Ministry staff who
explained that the motorboat wasn’t really big enough to take

Richard, Yohannes and me as well as a pilot. Debra Zion, the
island to which I had been told that the Ark had been brought for

safekeeping in the tenth century, was distant: at least a three-

hour journey in this humble craft. Furthermore, with no deck to
shelter under, we would be grievously afflicted by the sun.
Perhaps, therefore, we would care to come back tomorrow when
more suitable transport could be arranged?
Yohannes vehemently declined this suggestion. Professor
Pankhurst and Mr Hancock, he said, had important appointments in Addis Ababa tomorrow - appointments which could not
under any circumstances be altered. We must, therefore, reach
Debra Zion today.
More discussions followed and eventually we trooped along
the jetty and sat experimentally in the tiny motorboat. Arranged
around its sides we did more or less fit into it, although our
combined weight forced it rather low in the water.

What to do? The Fisheries officials seemed dubious but at last
agreed to let us have our way. The vessel was ours. They would
provide a pilot. And there would be no charge. We, however,
would have to arrange for the fuel ourselves. Perhaps we could
send our driver into the nearest town with a jerrycan?
We did this. A vast and completely inexplicable delay then
ensued. One hour passed. Then another. Growing impatient I
stood at the end of the jetty and made the acquaintance of several
marabou storks: huge, lugubrious, long-beaked, bald-headed
birds obviously descended from pterodactyls. Finally our driver
returned with the necessary fuel and - just after 1 1 a.m. - we
started up the outboard motor and set off.
We puttered, very slowly, through the rippling waters, passing
one densely wooded island, then another. The reed-fringed
shoreline receded and then disappeared behind us, there was no
sign of Debra Zion, the sun was now directly overhead, and the
boat was leaking in a small but noticeable way.
At this point Yohannes Berhanu rather pointedly reminded us

Ghost in a Maze

225

that the lake was full of hippopotami (which he described as ‘very

aggressive and untrustworthy animals’).

He was, I observed,

wearing a life-jacket that he must somehow have acquired before
our departure from the jetty. Meanwhile, Richard Pankhurst’s
nose was turning an interesting shade of lobster pink. And I
well I was gritting my teeth and trying to ignore the implications
of an increasingly full bladder. Where was that bloody island?
And when exactly were we going to get there? I looked
impatiently at my watch and was suddenly overtaken by a faint
but definite sense of the ridiculous. I mean, Raiders ofthe Lost Ark
was one thing but this, to be honest, was more like Three Men in a
Boat
The journey to Debra Zion did not take as long as we had been
told it would; nevertheless it took quite long enough and I was the
first on to dry land when we finally arrived. I dashed past the
delegation of monks waiting to greet us, disappeared behind the
nearest bush and emerged again some minutes later feeling very
.

.

.

.

much better.

When I rejoined the others, who were deep in conversation
with the welcoming committee, I noticed a number of papyrus-

reed boats lined up along the shore. They seemed identical in
every respect to those I had seen on Lake Tana. I was on the point

of asking about this when Yohannes interrupted my chain of
thought by announcing excitedly: ‘Graham. There is something
strange here. It seems that the mother- tongue of these people is
Tigrigna.’

This was strange indeed. We were now in the southern part of
the province of Shoa, an Amharic-speaking area. Tigrigna, on
the other hand, was the language of the sacred city of Axum and
of the province of Tigray- hundreds of miles to the north. I knew
from direct experience that Ethiopia was a country in which
regional distinctions, particularly linguistic distinctions, had very
profound implications (profound enough, anyway, to lead to civil
war). It was therefore most surprising to find that Amharic was
not the first language of the monks of Debra Zion.
Nor, as it turned out, did this peculiarity apply only to the
monks. We quickly established that every inhabitant of the
island, including the farmers and the fishermen, routinely
conversed in a dialect of Tigrigna and only used Amharic (which

226

Labyrinth

many of them did not speak at all well) on the rare occasions when
they were visited by government officials.

As we hiked up the winding path to the top of the hill where
Debra Zion’s main church was sited I asked: ‘How come you all
speak Tigrigna?’
‘Because our forefathers came from Tigray,’ the monks
replied through the medium of Yohannes.
‘When did they come?’

was around one thousand and thirty years ago.’
I did some quick mental arithmetic. One thousand and thirty
years from 1989 gave a date of ad 959. The tenth century, I
thought. The century in which Queen Gudit had overthrown the
Solomonic dynasty and in which the Ark of the Covenant had
supposedly been taken out of Axum and brought to Debra Zion
for safekeeping. Without really having begun to interview
anybody it was already beginning to look very much as though the
tradition reported to me by Belai Gedai had some substance to it.
‘Why did they come?’ I asked next. ‘Get them to tell us the
story of how and why they came here.’
Yohannes put this to the monks and then translated their
‘It

answer: ‘You see, their forefathers came here with the tabot. It

was in the time of Gudit. She attacked the Christians in Tigray.
There was much fighting. They were escaping from her. And
they came here with the tabot'

‘Which tabotV
‘They say it was the tabot from the Church of Saint Mary of
Zion in Axum.’
‘By that do they mean the original tabot that was brought by
Menelik from Jerusalem to Ethiopia? The Ark of the Covenant in
other words. Or do they have some other tabot in mind? I want to
be absolutely clear on this point.’
Yohannes manfully plunged into this minefield of interpretation while we carried on walking up the steep hill. Much
argument and debate followed before he finally commented: ‘I
do not think they are very clear themselves. But they say that it is
written

.

.

.

that it is all written in a book, kept here in the church,

and that we should discuss the whole matter with their senior
priest.’

Ghost in a Maze

227

Stolen history
Five minutes later we arrived at the church which, I was not
entirely surprised to discover, was dedicated to Saint Mary of

Zion. It was a plain and unpretentious wattle -and -daub building,

whitewashed on the outside and surmounted by a simple cross.
The view that it commanded from its position on the hilltop was,
however, superb, giving us some idea of the extent of this large
island. Behind us, from the direction we had come, the path
wound back through fields dotted with the poor huts of peasant
farmers. Ahead of us the land sloped steeply away to the lake’s
edge through a forest of acacia trees and cactus.

The senior priest, Abba Gebra Christos, now presented
himself.

A small wiry man, probably in his late sixties, he wore a

and a threadbare two-piece suit, around the
shoulders of which he had draped a length of white cotton cloth
in traditional highland fashion. His manner was welcoming and
genial enough but there was also a foxy and calculating look about
him that seemed to forebode imminent financial transactions.
I nervously fingered the greasy wad of birr that I had stuffed
into my pocket before leaving Addis and resolved to pay only for
high-quality information. Then, making as little song and dance
as possible, I switched on my tape-recorder and asked my first
question: did he know the story of how Menelik had abducted the
Ark of the Covenant from the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem?
Yes, Yohannes translated, of course he did.
And did he know what had happened next?
Menelik, the priest replied, had brought the Ark to Ethiopia
where it remained to this day.
‘Is he sure’, I asked ‘that this was the original Ark of the
Covenant, containing the Ten Commandments inscribed on the
Tablets of Stone by the finger of God?’
Yohannes put the question and Abba Gebra Christos replied
thin grey beard

gravely: ‘Yes. I am sure.’

was this same original Ark ever
‘OK. Good. Now tell me
brought here to Lake Zwai - to Debra Zion?’
‘Yes,’ said the priest, ‘at the time of Gudit the Ark was brought
here from Axum.’
‘But why was it brought here?’ I asked. ‘I mean, why here? Why
.

.

.

228

Labyrinth

such a long way? Surely there must have been hundreds of secret
places where it could have been hidden in Tigray?’
she was a devil. She burned many
‘Listen
This Gudit
churches in Tigray. And in other regions of Ethiopia. It was a
time of great fighting, great danger. Our forefathers were very
much afraid that she would capture the Ark. So they brought it
out of Axum and they carried it to Zwai where they knew that it
would be safe. They travelled only by night, hiding by day in
forests and in caves. They were very much afraid, I tell you! But
in this way they evaded her soldiers and they brought the Ark to
Zwai and to this island.’
‘Do you know how long it remained here?’
.

.

.

.

.

.

With no hesitation at all Abba Gebra Christos replied: ‘After
seventy-two years it was returned back to Axum.’
Now, I thought, was the right time to pop the sixty-four
thousand dollar question: ‘Has there been any other occasion’, I
asked tentatively, ‘when the Ark has been brought here again for
safekeeping? Perhaps recently?’

Again there was no hesitation: ‘Never.’
‘So as far as you know it is still in Axum?’
‘Yes.’

‘Even now - with all the fighting going on in Tigray?’
He shrugged: ‘I believe so. But that is only my opinion. To find
out truly you must ask those in Axum.’

Another thought now occurred to me: ‘When we were walking
up here,’ I said, ‘some of the monks told us that you have an ancient
book in which is written the history of how the Ark came to Debra
Zion in Gudit’s time. Is that correct? Do you have such a book?’
As Yohannes translated this question, the wizened features of
Abba Gebra Christos formed themselves into the expression of
one who has just tasted something unexpectedly sour. He
responded readily enough, however: ‘Yes, there is a book.’
‘Can we see it?’
A momentary hesitation, then: ‘Yes
But the part concerning the Ark is no longer there.’
‘I’m sorry. I don’t follow. What do you mean exactly?’
‘About twenty years ago a certain man came and cut some
pages from the book and took those pages away with him. They
were the pages in which the story of the Ark was told.’
.

.

.

Ghost in a Maze

229

‘This man. Was he a foreigner? Or was he an Ethiopian?’
‘Well, he was an Ethiopian. But since that time we have not

been able to track him down.’
As I considered the implications of this last answer I could not
help but reflect on the bizarre and convoluted nature of the
enterprise that I was now involved in. Was the matter of the
unknown man who had cut an unknown number of pages from an
unknown book something that should concern me? Or was it an
irrelevance? Was I picking up the traces of someone else’s quest
for the Ark of the Covenant? Or was I dealing simply with a local
manuscript hunter who twenty years ago had made a fast buck on
the antiquities market with the sale of a few illuminated folios?
I suspected that I might never know. Pursuing the Ark through
Ethiopia was turning out to be far more daunting and difficult
than I had ever imagined. Indeed it was something like pursuing
a ghost through a maze. Avenues that seemed promising and
open from one perspective turned out, on closer examination, to
be impassable dead ends; by contrast apparent dead ends had
more than once transformed themselves into paths to understanding.
I sighed, refocussed

my mind on the immediate issue, and told

Abba Gebra Christos that even if the most important pages were
missing, I would still very much like to see the book that he had

mentioned. Perhaps he would allow us to photograph it?
This suggestion produced a flurry of nervous objections. No,
the old priest said, he could not possibly let us do that.
Photographs were out of the question unless specific written
permission were given by the Patriarch of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in Addis Ababa. Did we by any chance have such
permission?

No, we did not.
Then, regretfully, we could not photograph the book. We
could, however, see it if that was what we wanted.
I indicated that we would be grateful even for that small mercy.
Abba Gebra Christos nodded sagely, led us inside his church and
walked over to a cupboard near the back of the humble building.
A tremendous pantomime ensued as he searched in all his
pockets for the necessary key - which, after some moments, he
confessed that he could not find.

230

Labyrinth

A young deacon was then summoned and sent off somewhere.
Ten minutes later, panting and out of breath, the boy returned
clutching a bundle of at least twenty keys. One after another
these were tried in the lock and eventually - to my considerable
surprise - the door was opened. The cupboard, however, was
almost bare and the one book that it contained proved to be an
early twentieth -century work donated to the church by Princess
Zauditu, the daughter of Emperor Menelik II.

At this point Abba Gebra Christos suddenly remembered an
important fact: the manuscript we wanted to see was not in the
church after all. A few weeks ago he himself had taken it to the
repository, which was in a separate building some distance
away. If we would like to accompany him he would show it to us
there.

looked at my watch, decided there was just enough time
before we had to leave the island, and gave my assent to this plan.
A lengthy hike followed and we eventually arrived at a rather
decrepit stone-built two-storey house. The priest ushered us
I

grandly into a dank and musty rear room, around the walls of

which were arranged dozens of wooden chests and garishly
painted tin trunks. After a moment of indecision he advanced
towards one of these trunks and threw back its lid revealing a pile
of books within. He lifted out the topmost of these - a weighty
tome with pages made of cured sheepskin - and passed it over to
me.
Richard Pankhurst and Yohannes crowded round as I opened
the volume. They immediately confirmed that it was written in
Ge’ez. Moreover it was undoubtedly very old: ‘From the style of
the illuminations, and from the binding, I would guess thirteenth
century/ volunteered Richard. ‘It’s certainly not later than the
fourteenth century. There’s no doubt that it’s an early work.

Probably very valuable.’
Eagerly we began to turn the pages. At no point, however, was
there any indication that anything had been removed. As far as

we could tell the manuscript was intact. We pointed this out to
Abba Gebra Christos, who had been standing silently watching
us, and asked him whether he was absolutely certain that this was

the book he had talked to us about.

As it turned out, it was not. Apologetically the old priest then

1

Ghost in a Maze

23

rummaged in a number of other boxes around the room, passing
us a series of ancient manuscripts.
‘It’s

quite amazing/ Richard

commented at one point. ‘So

many old books. A real treasure trove. And they’re just lying here
in complete disarray. They could get damp. They could get
stolen. Anything could happen to them. I wish we could move the
whole lot of them to the Institute.’
The last volume we looked at was a wood-bound and
beautifully illuminated copy of the Ethiopian Book of Saints. It
too was intact. When we had finished going through it Richard
nudged me in the ribs: ‘I think,’ he said, ‘that we’re not getting
anywhere here.’
I nodded: ‘I think you’re right. And it’s really late. We’d better
go or we’ll end up having to cross the whole lake in the dark.’
Before leaving, however, I asked Yohannes to make a final
attempt to get some sense out of the priest. Was the book that told
the story of the Ark really here or not?
Certainly it was here, Abba Gebra Christos insisted. Of course
it was here. The only problem was that he was no longer certain
in which box he had placed it. If we would care to wait - just a
little longer - he was sure that he could locate it
This was an offer that I felt safe in declining. It seemed to me
that the old man was being deliberately evasive - and if that were
the case then presumably it meant that he was hiding something.
But what? Not, I thought, the Ark itself. Perhaps not even the
notorious book. But something, definitely.
Puzzled and a little piqued I led the way back to the motorboat.
We said our farewells. Then, with at least an hour of sunlight still
left in the sky, we headed out onto the still waters of Lake Zwai.
.

I wrote

I

in

.

.

my notebook:

don’t believe there is any purpose in spending further

time investigating Debra Zion. After interviewing the

monks and the senior priest I feel quite certain that the
importance of the island lies solely in the strength of its
ancient traditions concerning the Ark of the Covenant.
Broadly speaking these traditions seem to confirm
what Belai Gedai told me in one of our telephone
conversations - namely that the Ark was brought to

Labyrinth

23 2

Debra Zion in the tenth century to keep it safe from Gudit,
that it stayed here for about seventy years, and that it was

then returned to Axum.

The fact that the mother- tongue of all the islanders is
Tigrigna rather than Amharic is strong ‘social’ evidence in
support of the oral history I was given - because the only
logical explanation for such an ethnographic peculiarity is

that there was indeed a movement of population from the

Axum area to Debra Zion in the distant past. Something as
momentous as the need to bring the Ark to safety could
certainly account for a migration of this sort. Moreover, if

the relic did stay here for as long a period as seventy years

before being taken back to Axum, then it’s quite easy to see

why some of the descendants of the original migrants would
have wanted to stay on the island, which would have been
the only home they knew. It’s also to be expected that they
would have maintained a folk memory of the glorious events
in which their forefathers were involved.

That folk memory is what I’ve spent most of the
afternoon listening to. In the process some intriguing local
mysteries surfaced. At no point, however, did I get any
sense at all that the Ark might actually be here now. On the
contrary, I feel confident in saying that it isn’t here - and,
furthermore, that it hasn’t been here for the best part of a
thousand years.
Since the same goes for the islands of Lake Tana as well

becoming transparently obvious that Axum is still the
most probable place for the relic to be. In other words, like it
or not, I’m going to have to go to Axum. The best time to do
that would be in January during Timkat, which is the one
occasion when I might be able to get close to the Ark without
it’s

having to gain access to the sanctuary chapel. And Timkat
1

770 was when Bruce was there - presumably for the same

reason.

I

closed my notebook and looked up at Richard and Yohannes.

‘Do you think there’s any possibility,’ I asked, ‘that the government will have captured Axum by January? I’d really like to get
there in time to attend the next Timkat .’

Ghost in a Maze

233

Yohannes said nothing. Richard made a face: ‘A nice idea. But
you might as well plan to fly to the moon.’
‘Well,’ I said, ‘it was just a thought.’
It was after dark when we finally moored the motorboat at the
Ministry of Fisheries jetty, and almost 10 p.m. by the time we

reached the sprawling outskirts of Addis Ababa. We instructed
our driver to head for Yohannes’s office in the centre of town
where we had parked our cars that morning (there were still two
hours left before curfew and our plan was to grab a quick dinner
at a nearby restaurant). As we climbed down out of the
Landcruiser, however, we heard a prolonged burst of automatic
rifle fire which seemed to come from an apartment block just
across the road. Seconds later there were two short answering
bursts from a different weapon. Then a profound silence fell.

‘What on earth was that all about?’ I asked.
‘Probably nothing serious,’ Richard offered. ‘There have been
a few isolated incidents since the attempted coup

.

.

.

shootings

here and there. But nothing major.’
‘Nevertheless,’ said Yohannes gravely, ‘I think that it would be

wise for us to abandon dinner. Let us all go to our homes.’

An ethnographic fingerprint
Back at the Hilton I slept soundly and awoke before seven the
next morning - Friday 24 November. I then took a turn in the
pool, had breakfast and telephoned the office of Shimelis
Mazengia. The Politburo member had asked Richard and me to
report back to him after completing our trips to Lake Tana and
Lake Zwai. His secretary now told me that she had been
expecting my call and gave us an appointment for three o’clock
that same afternoon.
Satisfied with this arrangement, and determined to bring up
the question of Timkat and Axum despite Richard’s pessimism, I
left the hotel and drove round to the Institute of Ethiopian
Studies.

My research on Wednesday the 22nd had established the
plausibility of the Nile/Takazze route mentioned in the Kebra
17

Nagast and also by the priest on Tana Kirkos. What I wanted to
do now was to test out a hypothesis that had subsequently taken

234

Labyrinth

rough shape in my mind. It seemed to me that if Menelik and the
first-born sons of the elders of Israel had indeed brought the Ark
to Tana Kirkos by following the Takazze river, then this would
have had implications for the distribution of the Jewish faith in
Ethiopia. If there was some truth to the legend, I reasoned, then
the traditional epicentre of the Falasha population should lie

between the Takazze and Lake Tana - since it would have been
in precisely this area that Menelik would first have begun to
convert the local population to Judaism. If the legends were false,
however, then I might expect to find that the bulk of the Falashas
lived elsewhere - most likely much further north and close to the
Red Sea (since academic orthodoxy had it that their forefathers
had been converted by Jewish immigrants from the Yemen).
I turned first to James Bruce, whose early work on the Falashas
had already impressed me so much. In Volume III of his Travels I
knew that the Scottish author had devoted a chapter to what
might loosely be termed the ‘social geography’ of eighteenthcentury Ethiopia. Though I did not remember the contents of
this chapter very clearly I hoped that it would have something to

say about the location of the principal Falasha settlements at that
time.

was not disappointed. Bruce’s survey began in the north of
Ethiopia - at the Red Sea port of Massawa - and worked inland
from there. Several ethnic groups were covered but no mention
was made of the Falashas in either Eritrea or Tigray. ‘After
I

passing the Takazze’, however, the country stretching to the

south and west as far as Lake Tana was described as being;
in great part possessed by Jews, and there [the] king and

queen of that nation and, as they say, of the house of
Judah, maintain still their ancient sovereignty and religion
18
from very early times
.

Writing in the nineteenth century (about eighty years after
Bruce) the German missionary Martin Flad had recorded a
similar distribution of population, noting that the Falashas lived
in a total of fourteen provinces - all of which lay ‘west of the

Takazze ’. 19

The modern sources that I next reviewed painted the same

Ghost in a Maze
picture.

23 5

The vast majority of Ethiopia’s Jews inhabited the

territory to the west and south of the Takazze river: this was their

homeland and their occupation of it was ancient
20
beyond memory.
One particularly detailed and authoritative
study included a map in which the entire area of Falasha
settlement was shaded - a long but relatively narrow strip
extending south-west from the Takazze through the Simien
mountains and the city of Gondar and then going on, without any
21
interruption, to encompass the whole of Lake Tana.
It would have been difficult to find more telling support for my
hypothesis that this - with the unique impetus provided by the
presence of the Ark on Tana Kirkos - had been precisely the area
in which the conversion of native Abyssinians to Old Testament
Judaism had been concentrated. On the basis of my own research
(see Chapter 6) I had anyway begun to doubt the merits of the
academic theory which held that the Jewish faith had first been
imported into the far north of Ethiopia from the Yemen at some
traditional

point after ad 70. Hitherto my dissatisfaction with such notions

had stemmed mainly from their failure to explain the extremely
archaic nature of Falasha beliefs and rituals (again, see Chapter
6).

Now the ethnographic evidence made the case against the

‘Yemeni connection’ look even stronger: on the map, the area in
which the Falashas lived stood out like a tell-tale fingerprint
confirming that the religion of Solomon could only have entered
Ethiopia from the west - through Egypt and the Sudan along the
ancient and well-travelled trade routes provided by the Nile and

Takazze rivers.

22

The virtue of patience
At three sharp, Richard and I kept our appointment with
Shimelis Mazengia. The Politburo member first of all wanted
to hear how our trips to Lake Tana and to Lake Zwai had gone.
Had we been successful? Had we found anything out?
I replied that our discoveries on Tana Kirkos island - and the
strange, archaic traditions that had been reported to us there had had a profound effect on my thinking. I was now almost
certain that this was the region to which the Ark of the Covenant
had first been brought before being taken to Axum.

Labyrinth

23 6

‘So you really believe that we have the Ark?’ Shimelis asked

with a smile.
‘I’m increasingly confident of that. The evidence is building
I hesitated, then turned his question back on him: ‘What
up
do you think?’
‘I think there is something very special in the sanctuary at
Axum. Not necessarily the Ark, mind you, but something very
.

.

.’

special.

It

is

an ancient

tradition.

It

cannot completely be

ignored.’

asked whether his government had ever made a determined
effort to find out whether the sacred - and immensely valuable relic was really there or not. The Workers’ Party of Ethiopia were
I

Marxists, after all, and so presumably were not hampered by
reactionary superstitions. It was only quite recently that they’d
lost

Axum to the TPLF. Prior to that, hadn’t they ever thought of

taking a look?

‘We never for a moment considered it,’ Shimelis replied.
‘Never for a single moment ... If we had tried to do something
like that I think we would have had’ - he smiled ironically - ‘a
revolution on our hands. Our people are very traditional, as you
know, and there would have been an explosion if any government
official had ever involved himself in such a matter.’
‘Do you think the TPLF have the same attitude?’ I asked.

‘Now that they control Axum, I mean.’
The Politburo member shrugged: ‘That is not for me to say.
.’
But they are not renowned for their religious sensitivities
I was a little hesitant about putting my next question, but did so
anyway: ‘I’m sorry if this sounds impertinent,’ I said, ‘but I’ve got
to ask. Is there any chance at all that your side is going to win the
city back in the immediate future?’
‘Why do you ask?’
.

.

‘Because I’ve come to the conclusion that I’m going to have to

go there myself. In fact I’d like to get there for the next Timkat
celebrations.’

‘You mean this coming January?’
I

nodded my head.

‘Impossible,’ said Shimelis flatly. ‘Besides, why be in such a

hurry? If you are right, then the Ark has already been in our

country for three millennia. In another year, two at the most, we

1

Ghost in a Maze
will recapture

237

Axum and when we do I think I can promise that

you will be the first foreigner into the city. So be patient. You will
get your chance.’
I had to admit that this was sound advice. In a country like
Ethiopia patience was almost always a virtue. I was not prepared
to wait two years, however. I therefore silently resolved to aim for
Axum not in January 1990, but injanuary 1991. The confidence
that Shimelis had shown had impressed me and I hoped very
much that the sacred city would be back in government hands by
then. Meanwhile, however - just as a precaution - thought that I
might also try to open up some dialogue with the TPLF. I had
hitherto avoided the rebels but it now seemed to me that it might
be in my interests to make some preliminary overtures in their
direction.
I looked across the table at Shimelis. ‘You’re right of course,’ I

said. ‘But would you mind if I asked you another favour?’

With an eloquent hand

gesture,

the

Politburo

member

indicated that I should go ahead.
‘I’d still like to

attend a Timkat ceremony,’ I continued, ‘and

since Axum is obviously out of the question I was wondering

whether I might be able to go to Gondar this January instead.’
Beside me Richard coughed politely. The city that I had just
named was reportedly besieged by rebel forces and there had
been rumours that it might fall any day.
‘Why Gondar?’ Shimelis asked.
‘Because it’s in the Lake Tana area - which, as I said, I’ve
identified as being closely associated with the early history of the

Ark

in

this

country.

And because I understand that many

Falashas still live in and around Gondar. I remember passing

through Jewish villages just north of the city way back in 1983,
but I didn’t have a chance to carry out any proper interviews at
with you, is kill two
that time. So what I’d like to do, if it’s
birds with one stone. I’d like to attend Timkat in Gondar. And
while I’m there I’d like to carry out some research amongst the

OK

Falashas.’

may be possible,’ replied Shimelis. ‘It depends on the
military situation, but it may be possible. I shall look into it and let
‘It

you know.’

1

1

.

Chapter 1

And David danced
before the Ark

.

.

On 1 8 and 19 January 1770 the Scottish adventurer James
Bruce had quietly attended the Timkat ceremonials in Axum
and, as outlined in Chapter 7

,

believed that he had done so in

order to get as close as possible to the Ark of the Covenant.
Exactly two hundred and twenty years later - on 18 and 19
January 1990 - I attended Timkat in the city of Gondar to the

north of Lake Tana. Moreover, although I had not shared my
true feelings with either Richard Pankhurst or with Shimelis

Mazengia, I saw this trip as being of pivotal significance to my
quest
Immersed as I was in the great historical mystery that
connected the Ark to Ethiopia, it had become clear to me that
sooner or later, somehow or other, I was going to have to go back
to Axum. I had resolved to try to make that hazardous visit in
January 1991 - and to make it under the auspices of the rebels if
necessary. I therefore saw Gondar as a crucial ‘dry run’: the
closest point to Axum still in government hands, it was also, like
Axum, a former capital of Ethiopia, an important historic site and
a centre of religious learning. In such a setting, I reasoned, I
might hope to prepare myself spiritually and psychologically for
the real ordeal that lay ahead, to familiarize myself with aspects of
the same arcane rituals that Bruce must have witnessed in 1770,
to gather such intelligence as I could, and to quicken my

commitment to the quest.
This, however, was not the only voice within me. Other, less
steadfast thoughts also passed through my mind and I could see

the possibility of a different outcome. If, for example, I were to

discover anything at Gondar which cast serious doubt on the

And David danced before the Ark

239

legitimacy of Ethiopia’s claim to be the last resting place of the

Ark then might I not - with honour - abandon my plan to go to

Axum in 1991?
This was a disturbing but oddly seductive notion to which I
found myself increasingly attracted as the date of the Gondar trip
approached. That trip itself was for a while in doubt - indeed it
was not until 8 January 1990 that I finally received a telex from
Shimelis confirming that the necessary permission had been
obtained from the military authorities.

Riddles to solve

knew that I could expect a central feature of the Timkat
ceremonies to be the carrying in procession of the tabotat - the
I

symbols or replicas of the Ark of the Covenant normally kept in
the Holy of Holies of every Ethiopian church. Of course in
Gondar I would not see the object which the Ethiopians claimed
to be the Ark itself (since there was no suggestion that it had ever
been lodged there). What I would see, however, was an event
otherwise identical in character that was regarded as the supreme
festival of the Ethiopian Orthodox calendar.
I had been aware for some time that Timkat meant ‘Epiphany’
- a holy day associated by the western church with the
manifestation of Christ to the Gentiles. Epiphany, however, had
an entirely different significance amongst eastern Christians, for
whom it commemorated the Baptism of Christ. 2 I had established that the Ethiopians were in complete agreement with the
rest of the eastern church on this latter point, but that they
diverged radically from the norm when it came to the specific
rituals employed. 3 In particular, their use of the tabot was unique
to them, unparalleled in any other culture and unrecognized even
by the Coptic Patriarchate in Alexandria 4 (which had supplied
Ethiopia with all its archbishops from the date of the conversion
of the Axumite kingdom in ad 331 until autocephaly was
achieved in 1959 5 ).
Against this background I felt that close observation of the
Timkat rituals and of the role of the tabotat within them might
help me to fathom what I had long since come to regard as the
central paradox of Ethiopian Christianity - namely its infiltration,
1

240

Labyrinth

indeed domination, by a pre-Christian relic: the Ark of the
Covenant.
This, however, was not my sole purpose in making the trip to
Gondar. While there I also intended to talk to Falashas living in
the environs of the city.

had already mentioned this to Shimelis and he had not
objected - for the simple reason that much had changed since my
previous visit to the area in 1983. Then, driving north from
Gondar into the Simien mountains, official policy had made it
almost impossible to do any serious work amongst the black Jews:
their villages had been effectively out of bounds and there had
been no opportunity to observe their customs or to carry out
I

proper interviews.
This repressive

state

of affairs had been swept away in

November 1989 when, after a sixteen-year break, Addis Ababa
and Jerusalem had restored diplomatic relations. At the heart of
this agreement was a commitment on Ethiopia’s part to allow the
Falashas - all the Falashas - to emigrate to Israel.

By then,
anyway, there were few enough left - probably no more than
000.

1 5,

6

All the others had died during the famines of the mid-

1980s or had already fled clandestinely to Israel via refugee
camps in the Sudan (from which, during 1984/5 alone, the airlift
known as ‘Operation Moses’ had taken more than 12,000 to
safety 7 ).

The net effect of all this, by January 1 990, was that the number
of Ethiopian Jews was dwindling fast. In the three months since
the restoration of diplomatic relations some 3,000 of them had
left

the country.

Many more had deserted their villages and

flocked to Addis Ababa hoping for an early place on the planes

and unstoppable, this latter-day Exodus was
gathering pace, and I could see that very soon not a single Falasha
would be left in Ethiopia. Thereafter, of course, it would still be
possible to interview them and research their folklore and
traditions in the Promised Land. This, however, would almost
certainly be the last year in which it would be possible to get any
out. Inexorable

impression

at

all

of their traditional

life

in

its

traditional

surroundings.

was determined not to miss this chance: the riddle of how
there had ever come to be Jews - indigenous, black Jews - in the
I

And David danced before the Ark

241

heart of Ethiopia was intimately connected to the enigma of the

Holy Ark; solve one, I felt, and I would solve the other.
Neither were the Falashas the only ethnic group of interest to
me in the Gondar area. In the week of research that I had done
just prior to my departure from England I had turned up an
intriguing reference to another people - a people known as the
Qemant who were described as ‘Hebraeo-Pagans’ in the single
anthropological paper written about them.

8

Published in 1969

by an American scholar named Frederick Gamst, this obscure

monograph observed that:

The Hebraism found among the Qemant is an ancient
form unaffected by Hebraic religious change of the past
two millennia. This Hebraism is dominant in the religion
of the Falasha, neighbours of the Qemant
sometimes
called ‘the black Jews of Ethiopia’. 9
.

.

.

had hitherto been completely unaware of the Qemant and was
therefore intrigued by Gamst’s suggestion that their religion
contained ancient ‘Hebraic’ elements. This, I felt, was a matter
that obviously merited further investigation since it might help to
shed light on the antiquity of Judaic influence in Ethiopia - and
also on the pervasiveness of that influence.
I

The One God and the fetish tree
In his study of the Qemant Gamst had mentioned that he had

been befriended by a religious leader who had helped him
enormously with his field work in the 1960s. The name of this
dignitary, I knew, was Muluna Marsha and his title was Wambar
(a word meaning ‘High Priest’ in the Qemant language). In the
short time available, it seemed to me that my best strategy would
be to try to locate this man (whom Gamst had described as a mine
of information) and to interview him about the religious beliefs of
his people. I could not be sure, however, whether he would still
be alive after so many years - or even whether I would be able to
find any Qemant still adhering to the traditional Hebraeo-Pagan
faith (since there had been less than five hundred of them in
10
Gamst’s time ).

242

Labyrinth

my arrival in Gondar on Wednesday 17 January I
discussed this worry with the officials who came to meet me at the
After

airport and was told that there were a very few Qemant - now

mostly elderly - who continued to adhere to the old religion.
Feelers were then put out, radio messages were sent to Party

cadres in remote areas, and, on Thursday the 18th, I got the good

Wambar was

His home village,
apparently, was inaccessible by road but it was thought possible
that he might be persuaded to come to an intermediate point Aykel, about two hours’ drive due west of Gondar. The journey,
furthermore, would almost certainly be safe: in recent fighting
the rebels had been pushed back and the western region into
which we would be going was considered to be secure during

news

that

the

still

alive.

daylight hours.

Timkat which I shall describe later in this chapter, took up all
of my attention for the rest of Thursday and all of Friday. Early in
the afternoon of Saturday 20 January, however, I was finally able
to set off for Aykel in the Toyota Landcruiser that the Party had
put at my disposal. In addition to the driver, I was accompanied
by Legesse Desta - the young and enthusiastic official who was
acting as my interpreter - and by two dour soldiers armed with
Kalashnikov assault rifles.
As we bumped along the rough, graded track through glowing
fields and golden-brown hills I studied the Michelin map of the
Horn of Africa that I now took everywhere with me. I was
interested to note that our destination lay not far from the
headwaters of the Atbara river which rose about fifty miles to the
north-west of Lake Tana and flowed from there into the Sudan,
where it was eventually joined by the Takazze before merging
with the Nile just above the Fifth Cataract.
Because it passed so close to Tana Kirkos, and because it was
specifically mentioned in the KebraNagast the Takazze itself still
looked to me like the strongest contender for the route of the Ark.
Nevertheless it was clear from the map that travellers following
the Atbara would also have arrived in this same general area. I
considered the implications of this and then remarked in my
,

,

journal:

The rivers are roads through the desert. In the case of

And David danced before the Ark

243

Ethiopia all these ‘roads’ - whether the Takazze, the
Atbara, or the Blue Nile - seem to lead to Lake Tana.

The Falashas (and their relatives the ‘Hebraeo-Pagan’
Qemant) have always lived in precisely this area and are
indigenous Ethiopians - natives of this country. Since
their Judaism (or ‘Hebraism’ as Gamst prefers to call it) is
a foreign element in their culture, it is logical to deduce
that it must have been imported along the rivers.

As we drove into Aykel we were met by a group of local Party
officials who told us that Wambar Muluna Marsha had arrived
some time ago and was waiting for us. We were then taken to a
large, circular hut with a high beehive -shaped roof and ushered

into the cool semi-darkness within. Thin shafts of sunlight fell

through gaps in the wattle -and -daub, highlighting motes of dust
that hung suspended in the air. From the newly brushed earth
floor there arose a loamy fragrance complicated by a faint note of
sandalwood.
The Wambar, as I had expected, was an elderly man. He had
evidently dressed up for this occasion since he was wearing a
white turban, white ceremonial robes and a fine black cape.
Seated on one of the several chairs that had been arranged inside
the hut, he stood graciously as we came in and, after the
necessary introductions had been made, shook my hand warmly.
Speaking through the interpreter he immediately asked: ‘Do
you work with Mr Gamst?’
I had to admit that I did not. ‘But,’ I added, ‘Eve read the book
that he wrote about your people. That’s why Em here. Em very
interested in learning about your religion.’
The Wambar smiled rather mournfully. As he did so I noticed
that one tooth, disconcertingly long, grew down from the left side
of his upper jaw and protruded tusk-like over his lower lip. ‘Our
religion’, he said, ‘has become a thing of the past. Almost nobody
practises it today. The Qemant are now Christians.’

‘But you yourself are not a Christian

?’
.

.

.

‘No. I am the Wambar. I still follow the old ways.’

‘And are there others like you?’
‘A few remain.’ That smile again. Then, slyly and somewhat
paradoxically: ‘Even those who say they are Christians have not

244

Labyrinth

entirely abandoned their former beliefs. The sacred groves are

The sacrifices are still made.’ A pause for
tended
thought, a shake of the old, grizzled head, a sigh: ‘But things are
.’
Always there is change
changing
‘You said “sacred groves”. What did you mean by that?’
‘Our worship, if it is conducted as it should be, takes place in
the open air. And we prefer to make our devotions amongst trees.
For this purpose we have set aside special groves called degegna .’
I put several more questions on this subject and established
that there were in fact two kinds of groves. Some - the degegna
themselves - were used for annual ceremonies. They had first
been planted in the distant past when the founder of the Qemant
religion was shown the correct locations in his dreams. In
addition there were other much smaller sacred sites - called qole
still

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

- which often consisted of only a single tree where a particularly
powerful spirit was believed to reside. These qole were normally
situated in high places. As it happened there was one on the
outskirts of Aykel which I could see if I liked.
I then asked the Wambar if he knew whether the Falashas also
venerated sacred groves.
‘No,’ he replied, ‘they do not.’

‘Would you say that their religion is in any way similar to
yours?’

A sage nod: ‘Yes. In many ways. We have much in common.’
Unprompted he then added: ‘The founder of the Qemant
religion was called Anayer. He came here to Ethiopia so long ago.
He came, after seven years of famine, from his own country,
which was far away. As he travelled on the journey with his wife
and children he met the founder of the Falasha religion, also
travelling on the same journey with his wife and children. A
marriage alliance was discussed between the two groups, but it
did not succeed.’
‘Did Anayer and the founder of the Falasha religion come
originally from the same country?’

‘Yes.

But they were separate. They' made no marriage

alliance.’

‘Nevertheless, the country of their birth was the same?’
‘Yes.’

‘Do you know where it was?’

And David danced before the Ark

245

was far
It was in the Middle East.’
'Do you know the name of this country?’
'It was the land of Canaan. Anayer was the grandson of
Canaan who was the son of Ham, who was the son of Noah.’
I was intrigued by this genealogy and by the faded memory of
an ancestral migration from the Middle East - a memory that also
suggested a common locus for the origin of the Falasha and the
'It

.

.

.

Qemant religions.

I

could not get the

Wambar to confirm

whether the 'Canaan’ that he had referred to was the Promised

Land of the Bible. Indeed, despite his familiarity with names like

Ham and Noah, he claimed never to have read the Bible.

I

believed him on this point but, at the same time, was in no doubt
that there was a scriptural background to what he had just told

me. Contained in his account, for example, were echoes of the
great trek made by the patriarch Abraham and his wife Sarah who
had fled Canaan and 'journeyed, going on still toward the south’
11
because 'there was famine in the land’. At the same time, like
Egypt in the book of Genesis, the country that Anayer had come
12
from had been afflicted by seven years of famine.
'Tell me more about your religion,’ I now asked the Wambar.
'You mentioned spirits earlier - spirits living in trees. But what
about God? Do you believe in one God, or many gods?’
'We believe in one God. Only one God. But he is supported by
angels.’

The Wambar then went on to list these angels: Jakaranti,
Kiberwa, Aderaiki, Kiddisti, Mezgani, Shemani, Anzatatera.
Each, apparently, had his own distinctive place in the countryside. 'When our religion was strong, all the Qement used to go to
these places to pray to the angels to mediate with God on their
behalf. Jakaranti was the most respected, then Mezgani and
Anzatatera.’

'And God?’ I asked. 'The God of the Qemant. Does he have a
name?’
'Of course. His name is Yeadara.’
'Where does he reside?’
'He is everywhere.’
A single God then, and an omnipresent one. I was beginning,
already, to see why Gamst had characterized these people as
furthermore,
Hebraeo- Pagans.
This
impression,
was

246

Labyrinth

*

strengthened by almost everything else that the Wambar told me
during our long discussion in the village of Aykel. I kept detailed
notes of that discussion and, after my return to Addis Ababa,

made a careful study of his answers - comparing them point by
point with the Scriptures. Only when I had completed this
exercise was I able to appreciate just how strong and how old the
Judaic dimension of Qemant religion really was.
The Wambar had told me, for example, that the Qemant were
forbidden to eat any animal that was not cloven-hoofed and that
did not chew the cud. In addition, he had said, camels and pigs

were regarded as unclean and were strictly forbidden. These
restrictions accorded perfectly with those placed upon the Jews
in the eleventh chapter of the Old Testament book of
Leviticus.

13

The Wambar had also said that amongst the Qemant even
‘clean

5

animals could not be eaten

if

they had not been

slaughtered properly. ‘Their throats must be cut until all the

blood is gone, he had explained - adding that, for the same
reason, it was forbidden to eat any animal that had died of natural
5

causes. Both proscriptions, I discovered, were perfectly in line

with Judaic law.

14

Still on the subject of food, the

Wambar had told me that the

consumption of meat and dairy products at the same table was
permitted by Qemant religion. He had added, however, that it
was regarded as an abomination to eat the flesh of an animal that
had been cooked in milk. I knew that orthodox Jews were
forbidden to mix meat and dairy foods in the same meal. When I
researched the background to this particular Kosher restriction,
however, I learnt that it derived its authority from the books of
Exodus and Deuteronomy, both of which stated: ‘Thou shalt not
seethe a kid in his mother's milk.'

15

This, more or less exactly,

was the rule obeyed by the Qemant.
Another area of convergence concerned the Sabbath - which,
like the Jews, the Qemant observed on Saturday. ‘It is forbidden
to work on that day,' the Wambar had told me. ‘It is forbidden
to light fires on Saturday. And if a field should catch fire
accidentally on the Sabbath then that is a field that we must no
longer use.’

16

These restrictions and others like them - all very much in

And David danced before the Ark

247

accord with biblical law - made me more and more confident that
a deep and truly ancient Judaic substratum did indeed underlie

the religion of the Qemant. What finally convinced me that this

was so, however, was the one practice that the Wambar had
described to me which had not sounded Judaic at all - namely the
veneration of ‘sacred groves’.

He had told me during our interview that there was a qole site
on the outskirts of Aykel where I might see a tree believed to be
the residence of a powerful spirit. I did go to look at this tree,

which turned out to be a huge, spreading acacia. It stood to the
west of the village on a spur of high ground, beyond which, across
a hundred descending miles, the land sloped steeply away
towards the Sudanese border. A soft afternoon breeze, laden
with the fragrance of distant deserts, blew through the tawny
canyons beneath me, circulated amongst the ravines and foothills, and soared on eagles’ wings across the first battlements of
the escarpment.

Gnarled and massive, the acacia was so ancient that it would
have been easy to believe that it had stood here for hundreds and
perhaps even for thousands of years. Inside the walled enclosure
that surrounded it, laid out upon the ground, were various
offerings - a jar of oil, a heap of millet, small piles of roasted
coffee beans, and a trussed chicken awaiting sacrifice. In their

own way all these oblations contributed to the peculiar character
of the place: numinous and eerie, by no means menacing but

none the less distinctly strange.

What multiplied this other-worldly effect, however - and what
made this Qemant qole site so different from any other place of
worship I had ever come across in my travels - was the fact that
every branch of the tree to a height of about six feet off the ground

had been festooned with woven strips of vari-coloured cloth.
Rustling in the wind, these waving pennants and ribbons seemed
to whisper and murmur - almost as though they were seeking to
impart a message. And I remember thinking that if I could only
understand that message then many hidden things might be
revealed. Superstitiously I touched the living wood, sensed its
age, and returned to my companions who were awaiting me at the

bottom of the hill.
Later, back in Addis - after I had looked into the other

d1

248

Labyrinth

8

*

comparisons between Qemant religion and Old Testament
Judaism - ran a routine check in the Scriptures and in works of
biblical archaeology to see if I could find any references to sacred
trees. I did not expect that I would. Much to my surprise,
however, I discovered that certain specially planted forest groves
had been accorded a sacred character in the very earliest phases
of the evolution of the Jewish faith. I was also able to confirm that
these groves had been used as places of active worship. In the
twenty-first chapter of the book of Genesis, for example, it was
stated that: ‘Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called
17
there on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God.’
Reading more widely around the subject I established the
following points with certainty: first, that the Hebrews had
‘borrowed’ the use of sacred groves from the Canaanites (who
were the indigenous inhabitants of the Promised Land); second,
that the groves were normally situated in high places (known as
bamoth ); and third, that they often contained sacrificial stone
pillars of the kind that I had seen on Tana Kirkos and that - as I
already knew - were called masseboth
Very little was understood about how the groves had been
used, what they had looked like, what sort of ceremonies had
gone on within them, or what kind of offerings had been made
there. The reason for this ignorance was that the priestly elite of
later biblical times had turned savagely against all such practices,
cutting down and burning the sacred trees and overthrowing the
1

.

masseboth

9

Since it was these same priests who had also been responsible
for the compilation and editing of the Scriptures, it was hardly

surprising that they had

left

us with no clear picture of the

function and appearance of the groves. Moreover the single

reference that did evoke some kind of image was regarded as a

mystery by biblical scholars. This reference, in the second book
of Kings, spoke of a place ‘where the women wove hangings for
20

As I read these words, the memory was still fresh in
my mind of the strips of woven cloth that hung from every branch
of the fetish tree on the outskirts of the village of Aykel. And it
seemed to me then (as it seems to me now) that there was no
mystery at all about the words in the book of Kings - but much
the grove.’

that still cried out for explanation about the Qemant who, in the

And David danced before the Ark
heart of Africa, had

249

managed to acquire a Judaeo-Canaanite

tradition as hoary with age as this one.

The whole issue, I felt sure, was intimately connected to the
larger

problem of the Falashas, the Qemant’s better-known

neighbours.

Aswan and Meroe
Despite the strong Judaic flavour of their religion, no one has
ever claimed that the Qemant are in fact Jews: there is too much
that is pagan

and animist about them to have allowed that to

The position, however, is quite different for the
Falashas. They have been widely regarded as true Jews since the

happen.

early nineteenth

century - though they were not formally

recognized as such by the Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Jerusalem
until 1973.

Two years later the Ashkenazi Chief Rabbi followed

opening the way for the Israeli Ministry of the Interior to
declare that the Falashas were entitled to automatic citizenship of
21
Israel under the terms of the Law of Return.
suit,

Ironically the main reason that rabbinical recognition was so

long delayed was the pronouncedly Old Testament character of
Falasha religion which did not in any way incorporate or refer to

Talmud

body of Jewish law and lore
22
accumulated between 200 bc and ad 500 ). This made the
Falashas seem quite alien to many Israeli and other Jews; it was
later accepted, however, that ignorance of Talmudic precepts
was simply a function of the fact that the Ethiopian arm of the
faith must have been cut off from the evolving body of world
Judaism at some extremely early date. This same isolation also
the

(the authoritative

explained the Falashas’ continuing adherence to practices that

had long been forbidden by the rabbis, notably animal sacrifice
(see Chapter 6).
The important point - which weighed heavily when official
recognition was finally granted in the 1970s - was that the social
and religious behaviour of the Falashas did clearly and unambiguously conform to the teachings of the Torah (Old
Testament). Moreover, within the Torah as one would expect of
pre-Talmudic Jews whose religious beliefs were genuinely
ancient, they showed the greatest respect for the Pentateuch (i.e.
,

1

250

Labyrinth

the five books believed by the orthodox to have been written by

Moses himself, namely Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers
and Deuteronomy). 23
This ‘fundamentalism’ within Falasha religion was typified by
their strict observance of the food restrictions enumerated in the
books of Leviticus and Deuteronomy and by their refusal to eat
any animal - ‘clean’ or not - that had been slaughtered by a
Gentile. It was also recognized that they paid meticulous
attention to the Mosaic laws of cleanliness and purity. Special
huts, for example, were set aside for those members of the
community considered to be temporarily in states of ritual
impurity - such as menstruating women, who were segregated
for seven days in line with a Levitical edict.

24

ceremonies (gezrat) were equally
traditional, taking place on the eighth day after the birth of a male
25
Likewise their
child, exactly as stipulated in the Pentateuch.
Sabbath procedures were rigorously orthodox with all fires being
extinguished before sunset on Friday, and on the Sabbath itself
no work of any kind being done, no water being drawn, no fire
being lit, no coffee being boiled, and only the consumption of
cold food and drink being permissible.
I was aware of all this when, during my stay in Gondar in
Falasha

circumcision

January 1990

,

visited several Falasha settlements.

My objective

was to make contact with religious leaders, to whom I wanted to
put certain specific questions. Because of the mass migration of
Ethiopia’s Jews to Israel this was no easy task: many homesteads
were completely deserted, stripped of their goods and chattels,
their doors left unbarred, and their inhabitants gone. Nevertheless, in the countryside some twenty miles from Gondar I did find
one village that still seemed to be functioning. Called Anbober, it
straggled across a steep slope in rolling mountainous terrain and
was populated almost entirely by women and children, the
majority of the menfolk having already left for Israel.
Falashas have neither synagogues nor rabbis; instead their
places of worship are called mesgid and their religious officials

kahenat (singular kahen meaning ‘priest’). With my interpreter
,

Legesse Desta, I now walked up through the village followed by a
rapidly growing crowd of mischievous children. We were making
for the mesgid - identifiable by the Star of David on its roof -

And David danced before the Ark
where

I

hoped very much

that

I

might find the kahen

251
in

residence.

On this occasion I was not disappointed: inside the humble
building, at a roughly made wooden table, a lean, elderly man sat

studying a copy of the Torah (which was beautifully written in
Ge’ez on cured sheepskin leaves). Legesse began by explaining

why we had come and then asked the priest if he would mind
answering some questions from me. After a lengthy debate he
gave his assent to this and introduced himself as Solomon
Alemu. He was, he said, seventy- eight years old. He had been the
kahen of Anbober for almost thirty years.
We spent the next couple of hours going through numerous
aspects of Falasha belief and ritual. All Solomon’s answers
confirmed the pure Old Testament character of the religion and
were very much in line with what I had already learned from my
research. In this context I pressed him particularly hard on the
issue of blood sacrifice, trying to establish why his people
continued with this practice when Jews everywhere else had
abandoned it two thousand years previously. ‘We believe’, he
replied with great conviction, ‘that God in his throne observes
these ceremonies and is pleased.’
Perhaps Solomon knew, perhaps he did not, how close this
simple statement was to a verse in the book of Leviticus which
described offerings made by fire as being ‘of a sweet savour to the
26
Certainly, he seemed a wise and well read man. When I
Lord’.
complimented him on his scholarship, however, his response with no trace of false modesty - was to insist that he understood
far less about the Judaic traditions of the Falashas than his father
had done. And he added that his father, in his turn, had
understood less than his grandfather - who had also been kahen
of Anbober. ‘We are forgetting our own past,’ he said sadly. ‘Day

by day we forget our history.’
Taking my cue from this I asked Solomon if he knew for how
many centuries there had been Jewish people in Ethiopia.
long before the
‘We came here’, he replied, ‘long ago
.

.

.

Christians. The Christians are recent compared with us.’

He then proceeded to tell me the familiar story of the Queen of
Sheba, Menelik and the bringing of the Ark. In this way, he said,
the Jewish faith had arrived in Ethiopia.

252

Labyrinth
IV

asked casually: ‘Do you have any idea what route Menelik
and his companions used when they made their journey?’
Though it might have surprised me once I now accepted his
answer to this last question with perfect complacency: ‘AccordI

ing to our traditions they travelled from Jerusalem through Egypt

and Sudan.’
Almost bored,

I

prompted: ‘Presumably they would have

followed the river Nile for much of the journey?’

The kahen nodded: ‘Yes. That is what our traditions say.’ He
then added two details that were completely new to me: ‘On the
way,’ he said, ‘they rested at Aswan and Meroe.’

Aswan, I knew, was in Upper Egypt (near the site of the
modern high dam of the same name), and in Pharaonic times had
been important as a source of the granite used in the construction
of the Pyramids. Meroe, the ancient capital of Nubia, had been
located much further to the south, in what is now the Republic of
the Sudan.
Intrigued, I pushed Solomon for more details of the Falasha
traditions concerning these places. He insisted, however, that the

had already said was the sum of his knowledge about
them. ‘I heard their names’, he sighed, ‘in stories told to me by
my grandfather. He was a wise man
but he is gone
Soon
we will all be gone.’
little that he

.

.

.

.

.

.

Ceremony of the Ark
Everything that I learned during my stay in Gondar reinforced

my view that it had been to precisely this region of Ethiopia that
the Jewish faith had first been brought in antiquity. The Falashas

were Jewish through and through, and this was their homeland.
Their near neighbours the Qemant also showed convincing signs
of an archaic and deeply ingrained Judaic influence.
Nor was this influence limited to the Falashas and the
Qemant. On the contrary, in Gondar and throughout Ethiopia,
supposedly ‘Orthodox’ Christians displayed many customs and
beliefs that were unmistakably Jewish in origin. Just like the
Falashas, as I already knew, they circumcised their sons on the
eighth day after birth, a date commanded by the book of Leviticus
- a date that, amongst all the peoples of the world, was now

And David danced before the Ark

253

observed only by Jews and by Ethiopians. 27 Likewise (in a
remarkable instance of the phenomenon known as religious
syncretism) the Jewish Sabbath was still being respected in the

twentieth century by millions of Abyssinian Christians - not
instead of the Sunday Sabbath adhered to by their co-religionists

elsewhere but in addition to it.

28

There were other holidays which, although superficially
Christian, were also clearly Judaic in origin. I had learned, for
example, that the Ethiopian New Year feast (Enkutatsh) corres-

ponded closely to the Jewish New Year (Rosh Ha-shanah). Both
were held in September and both were followed a few weeks later
by a second festival (known as Maskal in Ethiopia and Yom
Kippur in Israel). In both cultures, furthermore, this second
festival was connected to the New Year by a period of expiation
and atonement. 29
Ethiopian Christians also strictly obeyed many of the
Pentateuchal laws of cleanliness and purity. No man, for
example, would consider going to church after having had sexual
intercourse with his wife, nor would he have intercourse prior to
having contact with any consecrated thing, nor would he have
intercourse during days of fasting, nor would he have intercourse
30
with any menstruating woman. None of these restrictions were
called for by Christian lore; all of them, however, were demanded
in the Pentateuch (notably in the books of Exodus and
Leviticus

31
).

In a similar fashion Ethiopian Christians also observed the Old

Testament food laws, scrupulously avoiding the flesh of ‘unclean’ birds and mammals (pork being particularly abhorred) and
even attending to the minutiae such as the ‘sinew which shrank’
32
This same
referred to in Chapter 32 of the book of Genesis.
sinew, I was able to establish, was shunned by all Abyssinian
Christians and was known in Ge’ez as ‘the forbidden muscle’. 33
Another intriguing link that I had turned up while researching
this subject was that Ethiopian clerical vestments seemed to be
modelled upon the special garments worn by the priests of
ancient Israel 34 - the k’enat (belt) corresponding to the High
Priest’s girdle; 35
36

mitre;

the k'oba (skull-cap) corresponding to the

and the askema (scapular), with its twelve crosses in four

rows of three, corresponding to the priestly breast-plate (which,

254

Labyrinth

n

as Chapter 28 of the book of Exodus makes clear, was adorned

with twelve precious stones also arranged in four rows of three. 37

found it difficult to disagree with
Archbishop David Matthew who, in 1947, had described ‘the
whole cast of religious expression in Ethiopia as antique and
ceremonial and imbued with an undercurrent of Judaic prac38
tice.’
It was not until I participated in the Christian Timkat
celebrations on 18 and 19 January 1990, however, that the real
pervasiveness and power of this undercurrent was finally brought
home to me.
The preparations for Timkat were already well advanced
when, in the mid-afternoon of Thursday 18 January, I slipped
through a wildly excited crowd, up a flight of steps and on to the
exterior walkway of the church of Medhane Alem (literally
‘Saviour of the World’). Situated in the oldest part of Gondar,
this was a large, circular building laid out in the traditional
fashion - somewhat like an archery target if viewed from above with a series of concentric ambulatories surrounding the Holy of
All in

all,

therefore,

I

Holies ( mak’das ).

This distinctively Ethiopian pattern, as I already knew, was
repeated in a slightly different manner in rectangular and
octagonal as well as in round churches, and had been recognized
by scholars as being based ‘on the threefold division of the
Hebrew Temple’. 39 According to Edward Ullendorff, the first
Professor of Ethiopian Studies at the University of London:

The outside ambulatory of the three concentric parts of
the Abyssinian church is called k'ene mahlet

,

i.e.

the place

where hymns are sung, [and] corresponds to the ulam of
Solomon’s Temple. The next chamber is the Reddest
where communion is administered to the people; and the
innermost part is the mak das where the tabot rests and to
which only priests have access
This division into three
chambers applies to all Abyssinian churches, even to the
smallest of them. It is thus clear that the form of the
Hebrew sanctuary was preferred by Abyssinians to the
basilica type which was accepted by early Christians
,

.

elsewhere.

40

.

.

1

And David danced before the Ark

255

Professor Ullendorff declined to speculate as to precisely why
the Abyssinians should have favoured a pre-Christian model for
their Christian churches. As I stepped into the first ambulatory of

Medhane Alem, however, it seemed to me that the answer was
obvious: the Syrian evangelist Frumentius, who was responsible
for the conversion of the Axumite kingdom and who was
appointed as Ethiopia’s first archbishop by the Coptic Patriarch
of Alexandria in ad 331, must deliberately have adapted the
institutions of the new faith to the pre-existing Judaic traditions

of the country. 41 Furthermore, as Ullendorff did admit:
It is clear that these and other traditions, in particular that

of the Ark of the Covenant at Axum, must have been an
integral part of the Abyssinian national heritage long before

the introduction of Christianity in the fourth century; for

would be inconceivable that a people recently converted
from paganism to Christianity (not by a Christian Jew but
it

by the Syrian missionary Frumentius) should thereafter
have begun to boast of Jewish descent and to insist on
42
Israelite connections, customs and institutions.

Walking in stockinged feet - since it is considered sacrilege to
wear shoes inside any Ethiopian church - made a circuit of the
k’ene mahlet studying the faded paintings of saints and holy men
that adorned its walls: here was Saint George, mounted on his
white charger, slaying the dragon; there was God Almighty, ‘the
Ancient of Days’, surrounded by the ‘living creatures’ described
by the Prophet Ezekiel; here was John baptizing Christ in the
Jordan; there the Kings and Shepherds at the Manger; and over
there Moses receiving the Tables of the Law from the hand of
God on Mount Skiai.
Standing lost in contemplation before a portrayal of the Queen
of Sheba’s journey to Jerusalem, I became aware of the slow,
deep throb of a kebero - the large oval drum, made of cowskin
stretched over a wooden frame, that features in so much of the
music of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. To this barbaric
sound was now added a chorus of voices chanting a Ge’ez hymn,

and then the mystic jingle of sistra.
My curiosity aroused, I proceeded round the ambulatory and,

256

Labyrinth

at last, near the doorway that led inwards to the Reddest , I came

across a group of priests and deacons gathered about the

drummer, who was seated cross-legged on the floor hunched
over his kebero.

This was a strange and archaic scene: nothing about it
belonged to the modern world and, as I watched, I felt myself
transported backwards through time, riding the eerie waveforms
of the music - which seemed to me to belong neither to Africa
nor to Christianity but to some other place and to some infinitely
older faith. Dressed in their traditional white robes and black
shoulder-capes, leaning on tall prayer sticks, the deacons swayed
and chanted, swayed and chanted, absorbed in the primal
cadence of the dance. Each held in his hand a silver sistrum
which, in the silent interstices between the drum-beats, he raised
and then let fall, producing a clear and melodious tintinnabulation.

The chanting was antiphonal in form, with phrases uttered by
one group of singers being given their response by others, a
dialogue in which verses and choruses were passed back and
forth amongst the participants allowing the hymn to build to its
ponderous crescendo. This same system, I knew, had been an
established part of the Jewish liturgy in Old Testament times. 43
As I was reflecting on this coincidence a fragrant cloud of
incense billowed from the open door of the Reddest. Edging
forward I looked inside and saw a swirling figure wrapped in
robes of green embroidered with golden threads, a figure out of a
dream, half sorcerer, half priest, who whirled and turned with
drooping eyes.
Gathered round him were other men, similarly attired, each
holding a smoking censer suspended in a fine net of silver chain. I
strained my eyes to look beyond these figures through the fumes
and darkness and could just make out, at the very centre of the
Reddest, the curtained entrance to the Holy of Holies. I knew that
beyond that heavy veil, venerated and mysterious, guarded by
superstition, concealed and secret within its sanctuary, lay the
tabot - the symbol of the Ark of the Covenant. And I was
reminded that in ancient Israel the High Priest could not
approach the Ark unless he had first burnt sufficient quantities of
incense to cover it completely with smoke. 44 The thick fumes

And David danced before the Ark

257

were thought necessary to protect his life - necessary to ensure,
as the book of Leviticus rather chillingly put it, ‘that he die not’. 45
stepped across the threshold into the Reddest to get a closer
look at what was going on there but was almost immediately
I

waved back into the outer ambulatory. At the same time the song
of the deacons ceased, the drum-beats stilled and, for a moment,
absolute silence fell.

could sense an intangible atmosphere of imminence, as
though a huge charge of lightning were building up within a
I

thundercloud. A general stirring and movement then ensued,
with people scurrying in all directions. At the same time a smiling
priest took my arm lightly but firmly, and guided me out of the

Reddest through the k'ene mahlet to the main door of the church
,

,

where I stood blinking in the brilliant afternoon sunlight, amazed
at the rapid change of mood that seemed to have overtaken the
proceedings.

The crowd, big enough when I had arrived, had now swelled
huge multitude that completely filled the extensive
compound in which Medhane Alem was situated and that also
spilled out on to the road as far as I could see. Men and women,
small children, the very elderly, lame people, obviously sick and
into

a

dying people, laughing, happy, healthy people - half of Ethiopia

seemed to be here. Many clutched musical instruments of one
kind or another: cymbals and trumpets, flutes and fiddles, lyres

and biblical harps.

Moments after my own exit from the church, a group of richly
robed priests appeared. These were the same men whom I had
last seen amidst the incense cloud before the drawn veil of the

Holy of Holies, but now one of them - slender and bearded with
fine, delicate features and smouldering eyes - bore on his head
the tabot wrapped in costly brocades of red and gold.
At once the crowd erupted into a frenzy of shouts and
stamping feet and, from the women, shrill ululations - a rousing,
tremulous vibration that, I knew, had been connected by more
than one scholar to ‘certain musical utterances in ancient
the mode of
Hebrew worship (Hebrew hallel Ethiopic ellel)
exultation is to repeat the sound ellel many times, saying
The proper meaning of “Halleluyah” will
ellellellellellell, etc.
,

.

.

.

.

.

probably be “sing hallel or ellel unto Jehovah.” h6

.

258

Labyrinth

After standing at the doorway of the church for some minutes

while the agitation of the crowd grew, the priests now wheeled

and turned, making a complete circuit of the exterior walkway
before descending the flight of steps to ground level. The instant
that their feet touched the earth, the multitude parted before
them - creating a pathway through which they might pass - and
the shouts and ululations, the blowing of trumpets, the whistle of
flutes, the strumming of lyres, and the jingle of the tambourines
built up to a pitch that deafened the ear and filled the mind with
wonder.
I followed as closely as I dared behind the group of priests,
drawn along in their turbulent wake. And though the people were
gathered in their hundreds on either side of me, though many
were intoxicated either by millet beer or by the tumult, though I
was repeatedly jostled, and though more than once I was almost
knocked off my feet, I did not for a second feel threatened or
alarmed.

Sometimes funnelled through narrow alleyways, sometimes
spreading out across patches of open land, sometimes stopping
sometimes fast, sometimes slow, always bursting
with* music and song, we progressed through the ancient city.
And all the time I struggled to keep my eyes fixed on the red and
gold wrappings of the tabot which was now far ahead of me. For a
while, as a new horde of revellers joined us from a side street, I
completely lost sight of the sacred object. Then standing on
tiptoe, craning my neck, I found it and hurried forward.
Determined not to be separated from it again I scrambled up a
grassy bank, put on a burst of speed, overtook a massed block of
two or three hundred people, skidded past the priests, and
lumbered back down on to the road perhaps twenty yards in front
inexplicably,

,

of them.

Here I found the reason for the curious stop-start, halting,
lurching motion of the multitude. In the space ahead of the tabot
several impromptu troupes of dancers had formed themselves -

some of mixed sex, some all male, some all female, some dressed
in everyday working clothes, some in church vestments. At the
centre of each of these groups was a drummer, his kebero slung
around his neck, beating out an ancient and savage rhythm,
whirling, jumping, turning and shouting while those around him

And David danced before the Ark

259

exploded with energy, leaping and gyrating, clapping their hands,
beating tambourines and cymbals, pouring with sweat as they
capered and reeled.
Now, urged on by trumpet blasts and by shouts, by the thrum
of a ten-stringed begegna 47 and the haunting tones of a
shepherd’s flute, a young man dressed in traditional robes of
white cotton performed a wild solo dance while the priests stood
in their place stopping the eager crowd behind them and bearing
the sacred tabot aloft. Beautiful in his lithe vigour, splendid in his

seemed entranced. With all eyes
upon him he circled the pulsing kebero pirouetting and swaying,
shoulders jerking, head bobbing, lost in his own inner rhythms,
praising God with every limb, with every ounce of his strength,
with every particle of his being. And I thought
this was what it
must have been like, three thousand years ago at the gates of
ferocious energy, the youth

,

.

.

.

Jerusalem when

David and all the house of Israel brought up the Ark of
the Lord with shouting, and with the sound of the
trumpet [and] played before the Lord on all manner of
instruments made of fir wood, even on harps, and on
psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets, and on
and David danced before the Lord with all
cymbals
48
leaping and dancing before the Lord.
his might
.

.

.

.

.

.

In mid-stride, without any warning, the youth collapsed and sank
to the ground in a dead faint.

He was picked up by several of the

spectators, carried to the roadside and made comfortable. Then

much as before, with new
dancers constantly taking the place of those who were exhausted.

the crowd surged forward again

Soon afterwards a transition occurred. After tumbling and
charging down a last narrow street the crowd debouched into a
huge open square. And into this same square, from three other
directions, I could see three other processions also approaching

- each of which was similar in size to our own, each of which was
centred upon a tabot borne up by a group of priests, and each of
which seemed inspired by the same transcendent spirit.
Like four rivers meeting, the separate processions now
converged and mixed. The priest carrying the tabot from the

260

Labyrinth

church of Medhane Alem - whom I had followed faithfully thus
far - stood in line with other priests carrying the tabotat from
three of the other principal churches of Gondar. Behind this first
sacred rank were more priests and deacons. And behind them
again were the assembled congregations, forming an army that
could not have been less than ten thousand strong.
Almost as soon as the processions had joined we were on the
move again, welling forth out of the square and down a steep,
broad highway with the tabotat ahead of us. Now and then
children would be pushed close to me and would shyly take my
hands, walk with me for a while and then release me ... An old
woman approached and addressed me at length in Amharic,
smiling toothlessly
Two teenage girls, giggling and nervous,
touched my blond hair with fascinated curiosity and then rushed
off
And in this fashion, entirely caught up in the gaiety and
power of the occasion, I allowed myself to be swept along,
oblivious to the passing hours of the afternoon.
Then, quite suddenly, an imposing walled compound set
amidst grassy woods appeared around a bend in the track like an
image out of a legend. At some distance behind the surrounding
ramparts, I thought that I could just make out the turrets of a
great castle - turrets high and ‘marvellously embattled’. Not for
the first time in my travels in Ethiopia I was hauntingly reminded
of the wondrous Grail sanctuary described by Wolfram von
Eschenbach - of the ‘impregnable stronghold’ with its ‘clusters
of towers and numerous palaces’ that had stood at the edge of a
mysterious lake in the realm of Munsalvaesche. 49
At the centre of the enclosure wall was a narrow arched
gateway through which those ahead of me in the procession now
began to stream - and towards which I felt myself irresistibly
drawn. Indeed there was a tremendous force and compulsion in
this human flow, as though we were being sucked helter-skelter
.

.

.

.

.

.

into a vortex.

As I was impelled beneath the arch, jostled and crushed by the
scrum of eager bodies, I was shoved momentarily against rough
stone and my wristwatch was knocked off; almost immediately,
however, some unknown person behind me managed to retrieve
from the ground and pressed it back into my hand. Before I
could thank or even identify my benefactor I burst through the
it

And David danced before the Ark

261

bottleneck and arrived, slightly dazed, on the wide and open

lawns within the compound. In the same second the enormous
constriction and compression was relieved and I experienced a
delicious sense of freedom

.

.

.

The compound was rectangular in shape and covered an area
as large as four city blocks. Set in the midst of this great grassy

space was a second walled enclosure about one-third of the size

of the first - which in turn contained the tall, turreted castle that I

had glimpsed earlier and, to the rear and sides of this structure, a
man-made lake half filled with water. The castle itself had been
built by Emperor Fasilidas in the seventeenth century and
appeared to be accessible only by way of a narrow stone bridge
that passed over a deep moat and that led directly to a massive
wooden doorway set into the front of the building.
The crowd, I noticed, was still pouring through the narrow
archway that I had negotiated a few moments before, and people
milled about apparently aimlessly, greeting one another with
boisterous and high-spirited bonhomie. Off to my right, directly
in front of the castle, a large group of priests and deacons had
gathered and I could see that they now carried a total of seven
tabotat. I therefore surmised that processions from three other
Gondarene churches must at some point en route have joined with
the original four that had converged in the city’s main square
earlier in the afternoon.

The priests bearing the wrapped tabotat on their heads stood in
line, shoulder-to-shoulder. Directly behind them were many
more priests who held up brightly coloured ceremonial
umbrellas that were fringed at the edges and decorated with
crosses, stars, suns, crescent moons and other curious devices.
Five metres to the left were two further rows of priests, facing

each other, carrying long prayer sticks and silver sistra. And
between these latter two rows sat a drummer hunched over his
kebero.

As I edged closer to get a better view, the facing rows of priests
began a slow swaying dance before the tabotat- a dance acted out
to the same mesmerizing rhythm and to the same antiphonal
chanting that I had heard earlier in the church of Medhane Alem.
A few moments later the dance broke up as suddenly as it had
begun, the dancers dispersed and the priests bearing the seven

262

Labyrinth

tabotat proceeded majestically on to the stone bridge that led over

the moat and into the castle. They paused there for a moment,

caught in a warm ray of light from the descending sun, and the
women in the crowd gave vent to more wild ululations. Then, on
oiled hinges, the heavy wooden door of the fortress swung
silently open - affording me a transient glimpse of the shadowy
interior - and the tabotat were carried inside.

Gradually, almost gently, the assembled thousands began to
settle

down around the gardens. Some had brought blankets,

and thicker woollen gebbis
(cloaks). All, however, had the look of people who were going to
be here for the duration of the Timkat holiday, and all seemed at
peace with themselves - calm now after the effort and exultation
of the processions and prepared for the vigil ahead.
others

cotton shemmas

(shawls)

By 9 p.m. numerous camp

had been lit. Around the
flickering flames people wrapped in shemmas and blankets
huddled and murmured secretively - their words, in the old
fires

Semitic language of Ethiopia, turning to chill mist as they spoke.

Braced and exhilarated by the cold Afro-Alpine air, I sat down
on the grass, reclined, pillowed my head on my hands and gazed
upwards, delighting in the clouds of stars that had ascended the
sky. My thoughts drifted for a while, then focussed on the sound
of water gushing steadily into the lake somewhere quite close to
where I sat. At almost the same moment, from within the old
castle, a soft cadenced chanting and drumming rose up - an
eldritch, heart-stopping resonance that was at first so faint and so

muted that I could barely make it out.
I stood and moved closer to the bridge over the moat. It was not
my intention to cross it (I did not think that I would be permitted
to do so); rather I hoped merely to find a vantage point from
which I might hear the archaic music more clearly. Inexplicably,
however, I felt many hands pushing me forward - pushing me
firmly but gently - and soon I found myself on the bridge. There
a child led me to the towering door, opened it and indicated with
a smile that I should proceed within.

Rather timidly I crossed the threshold into a large, square,
high-ceilinged, incense -fragrant room illuminated by dozens of

candles mounted in niches in the rough stone walls. A wintry

And David danced before the Ark

263

current insinuated itself under the door that I had now closed

behind me and on all sides cold draughts pushed through chinks
and gaps in the masonry, causing the little flames to gutter and
dim.
In this ghostly half-light

I

could make out the robed and

hooded figures of perhaps fifty people standing in ranks twodeep and forming an almost complete circle that was broken only
by the doorway in which I stood. Though it was difficult to be
certain it seemed to me that all these folk were men and that most
of them were either priests or deacons, for they held prayer sticks
and sistra and were chanting a Ge’ez psalm so poignant and so
evocative that it caused the hairs at the nape of my neck to prickle

and stand erect. Directly in front of me, on flagstones strewn with
freshly cut grass, sat a drummer wrapped in a white shemma
,

striking the stretched skin of a kebero with a quiet but insistent

beat.

Now, without any break in tempo, several members of the
choir beckoned to me and I felt myself pulled into their circle,

warmed in, made a part of it all. A sistrum was pushed into my
right hand, a prayer stick into my left and the chant continued,

with the singers swaying very gently and very slowly from side to
side.

Involuntarily I felt my own body beginning to acquaint itself

with the rhythm. Watching the others, shedding

all

self-

consciousness, I raised and let fall my sistrum between the drum
beats,

and

as

I

did so the

little

metal disks in the ancient

instrument produced a tuneless, rattling jingle. This oddly
compelling sound, I knew, was older by far than the Temple of
Solomon, was older even than the Pyramids - for sistra just like
these had first been used in pre-dynastic Egypt

50

and had passed

from there, by way of the priestly guilds of Pharaonic times, into
the liturgy of Israel.

How strange this solemn ceremony was, and stranger still that
been allowed to participate in it, here in the heart of
the Ethiopian highlands at the edge of a sacred lake. With a shiver
of excitement I realized that there was nothing in the scene
absolutely nothing at all - that belonged
unfolding around me
to the twentieth century ad. I might just as easily have been a
witness to the arcane rituals of the tenth century bc when the Ark
I should have

264

Labyrinth

of God was placed by Solomon in the ‘thick darkness’ of the Holy
of Holies and when the priests,

Being arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and
psalteries and harps, stood at the east end of the altar
[making] one sound to be heard in praising and thanking
the Lord; and when they lifted up their voice with the
trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick, and
praised the Lord, saying, For he is good; for his mercy
endureth for ever 51
.

Was it not in just this fashion that the priests of Ethiopia - in
whose midst I stood - now also praised the Lord? And was it not
with just such fervour and conviction that they thanked Him for
His mercy and blessed His ineffable name, singing:
Rise Yahweh God, come to your resting place,

You and the Ark of your power.
Your priests, Yahweh God, are vested in salvation,
Your faithful rejoice in prosperity 52
.

The night passed with a dreamlike sense of real and impossible things randomly mixed up together. There were moments

when I hallucinated that the Ark itself was concealed somewhere
within the old castle. In my heart, however, I also knew that I had
not yet come to the end of my journey, that the Ark was not here
in Gondar, and that I still had miles and months to go before I

could even hope to approach it. For the present I would have to
content myself with the tabotat that reposed somewhere within
the casde

- with the seven cloth-wrapped bundles that the

alchemy of blind faith had effortlessly transformed in the past
twenty-four hours into objects of immense symbolic weight.

Before dawn the priests ushered me out of the castle and back
over the narrow bridge. As light gradually began to infuse the sky
I

then spent an hour or so exploring the great compound. If there

had been ten thousand people there the evening before there
were hardly fewer now. Some walked and talked in twos and
threes, others stood around in large huddled groups, others still
warmed themselves by the pale flames of the fading fires. And I

And David danced before the Ark

265

thought that I could detect again the same mood of expectancy,
the same sense of eager and restless anticipation, that had
preceded the bringing out of the tabot at the church of Medhane

Alem the previous afternoon.
I made a complete circuit

of the inner

compound

that

surrounded the castle and the lake. Reaching the far side of the
complex I then climbed the enclosure wall and looked down at a
scene both beautiful and bizarre. Below me an earthen embankment perhaps five feet wide ran all the way around the still and
shining waters, and on this embankment - on every square inch
of it - people stood watchfully, waiting for something to happen,
their shimmering reflections picked out by the risen sun.
A balcony projected at the rear of the castle and now, on to this
balcony, out of a cloud of incense, stepped a group of priests
dressed in splendid robes of green and red. Loud ululations
arose from the crowd and a short ceremony ensued which (I
learned later) served to bless and consecrate the waters. Then,
with amazing suddenness - and apparently oblivious to the
morning chill - people began to hurl themselves into the lake.

Some leapt in fully clothed, some completely undressed. Here a
young woman with ripe breasts thrust her naked baby beneath
the surface and brought him up again, coughing and spluttering,
in a shower of droplets. There, with movements that were brittle

and precise, an old man, lean and wizened, crooked and infirm,
waded in up to his chest. Here a group of teenage boys swam and
sported. There a middle-aged matron, stripped to the waist,
lashed her back and shoulders with a dampened branch
Meanwhile, from the main compound in front of the castle, a roar
.

.

.

of excitement could be heard as others in their thousands came to
join the throng, to splash and dive, to plunge and frolic.

climbed down from my vantage point on the wall and rushed
round to the front of the compound. Amidst all this distraction
what I wanted to do was to get back inside the castle. The tabotat
had not been in the place where I had spent most of the night
singing and chanting, dancing and swaying - so where were they?
I

And what would happen next?
Unnoticed by the near-hysterical crowd, I crossed the bridge
over the moat, pushed open the door and stepped inside; as I did
so I observed that the floor of the great room was still strewn with

1

266

Labyrinth

grass and that its walls were blackened with candle smoke. It was

now perhaps 7 a.m. and bright sunlight streamed in, startling a
group of deacons who had gathered there. Opposite me there
was a curtain drawn across an arch which I had not seen during
the night, and now through this curtain a priest appeared. He
regarded me quizzically, then smiled and seemed to offer a
welcome.
I walked up to him and signalled that I would like to pass
through beyond the veil. At this, however, he shook his head
vehemently. ‘No,’ he whispered in English. ‘No. Impossible.
Tabot inside.’

Then he withdrew again behind the curtain,

beyond which I thought that I could just make out faint stirrings
and footfalls.
I called out, hoping to attract the attention of someone in
authority, but got no response. Then - crassly - put my hand on
the curtain and made to open it. At this three of the deacons
standing in the room behind me leapt on me, grabbed me by the
arms and wrestled me to the floor where I received several severe
bruises.
I

cursed and struggled, not thinking clearly, aware only that I

was dazed and shocked: just a few hours earlier I had been made
to feel so much at home here; now I was being beaten up. With
some difficulty I shook my assailants off and pulled myself to my
feet. This action, however, was misinterpreted as the prelude to
another attempt on the curtain and I was pummelled and
buffeted while several more deacons blocked my way. ‘Cannot go
in there,’ one of them warned, indicating the room beyond the
veil. ‘Only priests to go inside.’ He wagged his finger at me and
added: ‘You are very bad man.’
I was then unceremoniously bundled out of the castle door and
deposited roughly on the narrow bridge in front of several
thousand frowning people - and I thought: if I get into this much
trouble just for trying to enter a room where some tabotat are
kept, then what on earth is going to happen to me in Axum when I
try to see the Ark itself?
I crossed the bridge, picked my way through the crowd and
stood on a patch of clear ground, shaking slightly because of the
adrenalin that was pumping through my bloodstream. Taking
stock I could see that many people were still in the lake, and I

.

And David danced before the Ark

267

could hear splashes and shouts. The majority, however, were

now out of the water and assembled on the broad lawns in front of
the castle, leaning forward avidly, craning their necks, excited

and yet oddly silent.
Then seven fully robed priests appeared at the castle door with
wrapped tabotat balanced on their heads. Slowly and deliberately
they stepped out on to the bridge and made their way across,
followed by yet more priests holding up ceremonial umbrellas. At
the same moment the crowd gave vent to a huge collective sigh,
an ardent gasp of awe and devotion that was soon enhanced by
the familiar high-pitched ululations of the women and by an
urgent, distracted jostling as people scrambled backwards and
sideways to clear a path for the advancing tabotat.

As the morning wore on and as the sun rose towards its zenith I
followed the procession back through the streets of Gondar as far
as the main square of the old city. There the dance of David
before the Ark was again enacted amidst shouting and the sounds
of tambourines and cymbals, amidst the blowing of trumpets and
the music of sistra and stringed instruments.

Then finally the priests carrying the seven tabotat wheeled and
separated. As they did so the multitude too divided itself into

seven different parts - seven different processions that now
streamed out of the square in seven different directions.

Running to keep up, panting and sweating, I followed close
behind the tabot of Medhane Alem, followed it all the way back to
the old round church and there, amidst a thousand exuberant

songs and dances, watched as the priest who bore it circled the
building once, circled it twice, and then at last, to a tremendous
roar of joy and approbation, vanished from my sight into the
darkness within - into the Holy of Holies, into the mystery of
mysteries.

A year’s reprieve

.

.

Gondar in January 1990, quite certain that I was right to
seek the Ark in Ethiopia. Despite a thin and superficial Christian
I

left

veneer, the central role of the tabotat in the ceremonies that I had

witnessed, the strange
adulation of the

laity,

dances of the priests, the frenzied
the archaic music of sistra and of

1

268

Labyrinth

drums and cymbals, were all
phenomena lifted straight out of the most distant and recondite
past. And it seemed to me then, as it seems to me now, that these
intricate rituals, these complex institutions - all of them focussed
upon the Old Testament worship of the Ark of the Covenant would not have been adhered to with such fervour and fidelity
over so many weary centuries if all that lay behind them were
mere replicas.
No. The Ethiopians had the Ark itself. Perhaps in the way
described in the Kebra Nagast or perhaps by some other more
historically probable means that i might in due course be able to
identify, it had come into their possession in the first millennium
bc. And now, so near the end of the second millennium ad, they
had it still, hidden away, concealed from prying eyes.
But where?’
tambourines,

of trumpets,

,

In answering this last question I felt that I could not ignore

the implications of my own research: the sacred relic was not on

an island in Lake Zwai; it was not on an island in Lake Tana;
instead all the evidence suggested that it lay still in its traditional

- safe in the Holy of Holies of the sanctuary
chapel at Axum. There could be no absolute certainty, of
course, but I felt sure in my own mind that I was right. And
twelve months hence, when Timkat came around again in
would have to go to Axum to seek it - and to see
January 1991
resting place

,

it

if I

could.

I felt

a sense of inevitability about this, as though a challenge

had been laid down - laid down as clearly and as compellingly
as the Green Knight’s taunt to Sir Gawain:
I

am known to many, so if to find me thou endeavour,

thou’lt fail not to do so. Therefore come! Or to be called

a craven thou deservest.

.

.

.

Yet a respite I’ll allow, till a

year and a day go by. 53

And what would I do in my period of reprieve, in my year of
grace? I would, I determined, learn everything I could about the
baleful object that beckoned to me - about its origins, and about

would study the Ark of God and I would attempt to
discover whether there might not be a rational explanation for the

its powers. I

And David danced before the Ark

269

terrors and the miracles that it was believed to have worked in

Old Testament times.

Part IV: Egypt, 1989-90

A Monstrous
Instrument

Chapter 12

Magic ... or Method?

During 1989 and 1990, as I immersed myself ever more deeply
in the mysteries of the lost Ark of the Covenant, I became
interested not only in where it was but also in what it was.
Naturally I turned first to the Bible, where the earliest mention of
the Ark occurs during the period of the 'wilderness wanderings’
immediately after the prophet Moses had led the children of
Israel out of their captivity in Egypt (around 1250 bc ). In
Chapter 25 of the book of Exodus we read that the precise
dimensions of the sacred relic and the materials to be used in its
construction were revealed to Moses on Mount Sinai by God
1

Himself:

You are to make me an Ark of acacia wood two and a half
cubits long, one and a half cubits wide, and one and a

half cubits high [i.e. a rectangular chest measuring three
feet nine inches by two feet three inches by two feet three
2

inches ]. You are to plate it, inside and out, with pure
gold, and decorate it all around with a gold moulding.

You will cast four gold rings for the Ark and fix them to
its four supports

[or corners

3
]:

two rings on one side and

two rings on the other. You will also make shafts of acacia
wood plated with gold and pass the shafts through the
rings on the sides of the Ark, to carry the Ark by these.
The shafts must remain in the rings of the Ark and not be
Further you are to make a throne of
withdrawn
mercy, of pure gold, two and a half cubits long, and one
and a half cubits wide. For the two ends of this throne of
mercy you are to make two golden cherubim; you are to
.

.

.

A Monstrous Instrument

274

s'

make them of beaten gold. Make the first cherub for one
end and the second for the other, and fasten them to the two
ends of the throne of mercy so that they may make one piece
with it. The cherubim are to have their wings spread

upwards so that they overshadow the throne of mercy. They
must face one another, their faces towards the throne of
mercy. You must place the throne of mercy on top of the Ark
There I shall come to meet you: there from above the
throne of mercy, from between the two cherubim that are on
the Ark 4
.

.

.

.

one of the very strangest
passages in the Bible. After receiving it, Moses passed it on
verbatim to an artificer named Bezaleel, a man 'filled with the
spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, to devise cunning
6
works .’ 5 Bezaleel made the Ark exactly as specified Then,
when it was ready, Moses placed inside it the two tablets of stone,
also given to him on Mount Sinai, on which God had inscribed
the Ten Commandments 7 The sacred object, now pregnant
with its precious contents, was then installed behind a 'veil’ in the
8
Holy of Holies of the Tabernacle - the portable tent-like
structure that the Israelites used as their place of worship during
their wanderings in the wilderness.
This 'divine blueprint’

is,

surely,

.

.

The terrors and the miracles
Soon terrible things began to happen. The first concerned
Nadab and Abihu, two of the four sons of Aaron the High Priest,
who was Moses’s own brother. As members of the priestly family
they enjoyed access to the Holy of Holies, into which they one
day advanced carrying metal incense burners in their hands 9
There, according to the book of Leviticus they ‘offered strange
10
fire before the Lord, which He commanded them not ’.
The
devastating consequence was that a flame leapt out from the Ark
11
'and devoured them and they died .’
.

And the Lord spake unto Moses after the death of the
two sons of Aaron, when they offered before the Lord

Magic ... or Method?

275

and died; And the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron
thy brother, that he come not at all times into the holy place
within the veil before the throne of mercy, which is upon the
Ark; that he die not: for I will appear in the cloud upon the
throne ofmercy.

12

The throne of mercy - ‘mercy seat’ in some translations - was
the slab of pure gold that served as the Ark’s cover. The reader
will recall that mounted on either end of it - and facing each other

- were two golden figures of cherubim. ‘The cloud upon the
throne

of mercy’ which threatened

death to Aaron must

therefore have been visible between the cherubim.

It

was not

always present, but on those occasions when it did materialize the
13

Israelites believed ‘that the demons held sway’

- and then even

Moses would not dare to approach. 14
Other supposedly supernatural phenomena also manifested
themselves ‘between the cherubim’ that faced each other across
15
after the
the Ark’s golden lid. For example, just a few days
unfortunate demise of Aaron’s two sons, Moses went into the

Holy of Holies of the Tabernacle, which was then still pitched in
the shadow of Mount Sinai. After he had entered, the prophet
‘heard the voice of one speaking unto him from off the mercy seat
16
from between the two cherubim.’
that was upon the Ark
Certain very ancient Jewish legends state that this voice came
17
from heaven ‘in the form of a tube of fire’. And fire - in one
guise or another, with and without the deadly cloud - seems often
to have been associated with the cherubim. According to an
enduring folk memory, for example, ‘two sparks [elsewhere
described as “fiery jets”] issued from the cherubim which
shaded the Ark’ - sparks which occasionally burned and
.

.

destroyed nearby objects.

.

18

Eventually the time came for the Israelites to abandon their

camp at the foot of Mount Sinai - also called the ‘Mountain of
Yahweh’ (after the name of God):
They set out from the mountain of Yahweh and
journeyed for three days. The Ark of the Covenant of
Yahweh went at their head for this journey of three days,
And as the
searching out a camping place for them
.

.

.

276

A Monstrous Instrument

Ark set out, Moses would say, ‘Arise Yahweh, may your
enemies be scattered and those who hate you run for their
lives before you!’ And as it came to rest, he would say,
‘Come back, Yahweh, to the thronging hosts of Israel.’ 19
Travelling at the head of the Israelite column, the sacred relic

was borne on the shoulders of ‘the Kohathites’ (or ‘sons of
Kohath’), a sub-clan of the tribe of Levi to which both Moses and
Aaron also belonged. According to several legends, and to
rabbinical commentaries on the Old Testament, these bearers
20
were occasionally killed by the ‘sparks’ which the Ark emitted
and, in addition, were lifted bodily off the ground from time to
time because ‘the Ark [was] able to carry its carriers as well as
21
itself.’

Nor is this the only Jewish tradition to suggest that the

Ark might have been able to exert a mysterious force that in some
way was able to counteract gravity. Several other pieces of
learned Midrashic exegesis also testify that it sometimes lifted its
bearers off the ground (thus temporarily relieving them of what

would otherwise have been a considerable burden).

22

In a similar

vein a particularly striking Jewish legend reports an incident

during which the priests attempting to carry the Ark were ‘tossed
by an invisible agency into the air and flung to the ground again

and again.’ 23 Another tradition describes an occasion when ‘the
Ark leaped of itself into the air’. 24
Imbued as it was with such strange energies it is little wonder,
throughout their wanderings in the wilderness, that the Israelites
were able to use the Ark as a weapon - a weapon with powers so
terrible that it could bring victory even when the odds seemed
overwhelming. 25 An account of one such battle describes the Ark
as first uttering ‘a moaning sound’, then rising up off the ground
26
and rushing towards the enemy - who not surprisingly were
plunged into disarray and slaughtered on the spot. On another
occasion, however - and as though to prove the rule - the
Israelites were themselves defeated. This happened, according
to the Bible, because they did not have the Ark with them at the
time - Moses had withheld it from them after advising them
against mounting an assault in that particular area:

They set out presumptuously towards the heights of the

Magic ... or Method?

277

highlands. Neither the Ark of the Covenant of Yahweh

nor Moses left the camp. Then the Amalekites came
down
which dwelt in that hill country, and smote
them and discomfited them. 27
.

.

.

According
wilderness,

28

to

the

Bible,

years

forty

were spent

the

in

years during which the Israelites learned that it was

in their interests to follow Moses’s advice to the letter. There-

under his leadership and with the help of the Ark, they
successfully subdued the fierce tribes of the Sinai peninsula,
conquered Transjordania, spoiled the Midianites, 29 and
generally laid waste to all those who opposed them. Finally,
towards the end of their four decades of wandering, they ‘pitched
after,

their camp in the plains of Moab

.

.

.

opposite Jericho.’

30

Just across the Jordan river, the Promised Land was now in
sight. By this time Moses’s brother Aaron had already died

31

and

had been replaced in the office of High Priest by Eleazar. 32
Meanwhile Moses himself had been forewarned by Yahweh that
it was not his destiny to enter Canaan and, accordingly, had
invested ‘Joshua, the son of Nun’ as his successor. 33
Soon afterwards Moses died, 34 but not before he had initiated
Joshua into the mysteries of the Ark of the Covenant. 35 The new
leader therefore had a formidable weapon at his disposal to
deploy against the fierce resistance that he was about to
encounter in the heavily fortified city of Jericho.
Joshua seemed to know that the Ark was a two-edged sword that, if not properly handled, it could harm the Israelites as well
as their enemies. Early in the campaign, while he was planning
the advance across the Jordan river towards Jericho, he sent his
officers throughout the camp to tell the people this:

When ye see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your
God, and the priests the Levites bearing it, then ye shall
remove from your place and go after it. Yet there shall be a
space between you and it about two thousand cubits by
,

measure: come not near unto it

Then, when all was prepared:

.

.

A Monstrous Instrument

278

Joshua spake unto the priests, saying, Take up the Ark of
And it
the Covenant, and pass over before the people
came to pass ... as they that bare the Ark were come
[that] the waters which came from above
unto Jordan
and those that came
stood and rose up upon an heap
down were cut off
and the priests that bare the Ark of
the Covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground in the
when the priests
were
And
midst of Jordan
come up out of the midst of Jordan and the soles of the
the
priests’ feet were lifted up onto the dry land
And
waters of Jordan returned unto their place
saying ... the Lord your God dried up
[Joshua] spake
the waters of Jordan from before you, until ye were
passed over. 37
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Anyone reared

.

.

.

.

in

the Judaeo-Christian

tradition will

be

familiar with the details of the assault on Jericho that followed the

triumphal crossing of the Jordan. While the main mass of the

people stood back at the obligatory distance of two thousand
cubits (more than half a mile), a hand-picked group of priests
blowing trumpets marched around the walls of the city bearing
the Ark. This procedure was repeated every day for six days.

Then:

On the seventh day

.

.

they rose early about the dawning

.

of the day, and compassed the city after the same manner
.

.

.

only on that day they compassed the city seven times.

And ... at the seventh time, when the priests blew with
the trumpets, Joshua said unto the people, Shout; for the

Lord hath given you the city ... So the people shouted
when the priests blew with the trumpets: and it came to
pass, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet,
and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall
fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city
and they took the city
and they utterly destroyed all
that was in the city. 38
.

.

.

.

.

.

when it was new, the Ark was nigh-on
invincible, and during Joshua’s campaigns in the Promised Land
In the wilderness,

Magic ... or Method?
the biblical testimony suggests that

279

continued to play a
significant military role long after the fall of Jericho. 39 Within
it

about a hundred and fifty years of Joshua’s death, however, a
change took place: a close examination of the relevant books of
the Old Testament shows that, by this time, the relic was no
longer routinely being carried into battle; instead it had been
installed (in its Tabernacle) at an important shrine -sanctuary
known as Shiloh, where it rested permanently. 40
The reason for this change was the increasing power and
confidence of the Israelites themselves who, by the eleventh
century bc, had managed to capture, settle and control most of
the Promised Land and who evidently felt that it was no longer

necessary in such circumstances for them to bring out their
secret weapon.

41

This self-assurance, however, proved misplaced on one
significant occasion - the battle of Ebenezer, at which the
Israelites were defeated by the Philistines and four thousand of
42
After this debacle
their men were killed.
:

The troops returned to the camp and the elders of Israel
said
‘Let us fetch the Ark of our God from Shiloh so
that it may come among us and rescue us from the power
.

.

.

of our enemies.’ 43

This suggestion was immediately accepted:

So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from
thence the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of Hosts,
and when the
which dwelleth between the cherubim
Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all
.

.

.

Israel shouted with a great shout so that the earth rang.

44

Hearing this noise, the Philistines exclaimed:

‘What can this great shouting in the Hebrew camp mean?’
And they realized that the Ark of Yahweh had come into
the camp. At this the Philistines were afraid; and they
said, ‘God has come to the camp’. ‘Alas!’ they cried.
‘This has never happened before. Alas! Who

A Monstrous Instrument

280

will save us from the power of this mighty God?.

.

.

But take

courage and be men, Philistines, or you will become slaves
to the Hebrews ... Be men and fight.'

45

was joined again and, to the utter astonishment of all

Battle

concerned:
Israel was smitten, and they fled every man into his tent:

and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of
Israel thirty thousand footmen. And the Ark of God was
taken.

46

This was truly a catastrophe. Never before had the Israelites
suffered defeat when they had carried the Ark into battle and
never before had the Ark itself been captured. Such an
eventuality had been unthinkable, unimaginable - and yet it had
happened.
As the Philistines bore the relic triumphantly away, a runner
was sent to carry the bad news to Eli, the High Priest, who had
remained behind at Shiloh:

And
.

.

.

.

.

.

lo, Eli sat

upon a seat by the wayside watching

Now Eli was ninety and eight years old and his eyes

were dim that he could not see. And the man said unto
Eli, I am he that came out of the army, and I fled today
out of the army. And he said, What is there done, my
son? And the messenger answered and said, Israel is fled
before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great
slaughter among the people
and the Ark of God is
.

.

.

taken.

When he mentioned the Ark of God, Eli fell backward
off his seat

.

.

.

His neck was broken and he died, for he

was old and heavy.
was with child and near
her time. When she heard the news that the Ark of God
had been captured
she crouched down and gave birth,
[And] his daughter-in-law

.

.

.

.

.

for her labour pains came on. 47

.

Magic

•

•

•

or Method?

281

The child thus born was called Ichabod meaning ‘where is the
48
glory?’
This curious name was chosen, the Bible explained,
because the mother had given vent to a great cry of grief when she
had received the information about the loss of the Ark: ‘And she
said, The glory is departed from Israel: for the Ark of God is
taken.’ 49

Even stranger and more alarming events were to follow:

When the Philistines had captured the Ark of God they
brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. Taking the Ark of
God, the Philistines put it in the temple of [their deity]

Dagon, setting it down beside [the statue of] Dagon.
Next morning the people of Ashdod went to the temple of
Dagon and there lay Dagon face down on the ground
before the Ark of Yahweh. They picked Dagon up and
put him back in his place. But early next morning there
lay Dagon face down again upon the ground before the
Ark of Yahweh, and Dagon’s head and two hands were
lying severed on the threshold; only the trunk of Dagon
was left in its place. This is why the priests of Dagon and
indeed all who enter Dagon’s temple do not step on the
threshold of Dagon in Ashdod to the present day.

The hand of Yahweh weighed heavily on the people of
Ashdod and struck terror into them, afflicting them with
tumours, in Ashdod and its territory. When the men of
Ashdod saw what was happening they said, ‘The Ark of
the God of Israel must not stay here with us, for his hand
lies heavy on us and on

Dagon our god.’ So they

summoned all the Philistine chiefs to them, and said,
‘What shall we do with the Ark of the God of Israel?’
They decided, ‘The Ark of the God of Israel must go to
Gath.’ So they took the Ark of the God of Israel to Gath.
But after they had taken it there, the hand of Yahweh lay
heavy on that town and a great panic broke out; the
people of the town, from youngest to oldest, were
struck with tumours that he brought out on them. They
then sent the Ark of God to Ekron, but when it came to
Ekron the Ekronites shouted, ‘They have brought us the
Ark of the God of Israel to bring death to us and our

282

A Monstrous Instrument

people.’ They summoned all the Philistine chiefs and said,

‘Send the Ark of the God of Israel away; let it not bring
death to us and our people’ - for there was mortal panic
throughout the town; the hand of God was very heavy there.
The people who did not die were struck with tumours and
50
the wailing from the town went up to heaven.
Shattered by the horrible afflictions that they had suffered

because of the relic, the Philistines eventually decided - after
52
51
To this
seven months - to ‘send it back to where it belongs’.
end they loaded it onto a ‘new cart’ hauled by ‘two milch kine’ 53
and set it rumbling on its way towards Bethshemesh, the nearest
point inside Israelite territory. 54

Another disaster soon followed, and this time the Philistines
were not the victims:

They of Bethshemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in
the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the Ark,

and rejoiced to see it. And the cart came unto the field of
Joshua, a Bethshemite, and stood there, where there was
a^great stone: and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt
offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto the
Lord
[But] he smote the men of Bethshemesh
because they had looked into the Ark of the Lord, even
he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and
ten men; and the people lamented because the Lord had
.

.

.

smitten many of the people with great slaughter. 55

The text quoted above is from the King James Authorized
Version of the Bible, produced in the early seventeenth century.

Other more recent translations agree that certain men of
Bethshemesh were smitten or ‘struck down’ by the Ark but put
the number slain at seventy rather than fifty thousand and seventy
- and it is the consensus of modern scholarship that this figure is
the correct one.

56

Seventy men, therefore, looked into the Ark of the Covenant
after it arrived in the field of Joshua the Bethshemite, and these
seventy men died as a result. 57 Nowhere is it stated exactly how

they died; but there can be no doubt that they were killed by the

Magic ... or Method?

283

Ark - and in a manner sufficiently dramatic and horrible to lead
the survivors to conclude: ‘No one is safe in the presence of the
Lord, this holy God. To whom can we send it to be rid of him?’ 58
At this point, suddenly and rather mysteriously, a group of
Levitical priests appeared, ‘took down the Ark of the Lord,’ 59
and carried it off - not to its former home at Shiloh but instead to
a place called ‘Kiriath-Jearim’ where it was installed in ‘the house
60
of Abinadab on the hill’.
And on that hill it remained, isolated and guarded, 61 for the
Indeed it was not brought down again
next half century or so.
until David had become King of Israel. A powerful and
headstrong man, he had recently captured the city of Jerusalem.
Now it was his intention to consolidate his authority by bringing
up to his new capital the most sacred relic of his people.
The date would have been somewhere between 1000 and 990
bc 63 This is what happened:
.

They placed the Ark of God on a new cart and brought it
from Abinadab’s house which is on the hill. Uzzah and
were leading the cart. Uzzah walked alongside
Ahio
When they
the Ark of God and Ahio went in front
came to the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah stretched his
hand out to the Ark of God and steadied it, as the oxen
were making it tilt. Then the anger of Yahweh blazed out
against Uzzah, and for this crime God struck him down
on the spot, and he died there beside the Ark of God. 64
.

.

.

.

.

.

Quite naturally:

David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, ‘How can
I harbour the Ark of the Lord after this?’ He felt he could
not take the Ark of the Lord with him to the City of
David.

65

Instead he ‘turned aside and carried it to the house of Obed-

edom the Gittite.’ 66 At that house, while the Jewish monarch
waited to see if it would kill anyone else, the Ark of the Covenant
remained for three months. No further disasters occurred,

however. On the contrary: ‘Yahweh blessed Obed-edom and his

284

A Monstrous Instrument

whole family .’ 67 The Scriptures are not explicit about the nature
of this benediction. According to. ancient folk traditions, however, 'it consisted in Obed-edom being blessed with many
The women in his house gave birth after a
children
pregnancy of two months only and bore six children at one
.

time .’

.

.

68

The Bible takes up the story again as follows:
was told King David, saying, the Lord hath blessed the
house of Obed-edom and all that pertaineth unto him,
because of the Ark of God. So David went and brought
the Ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the
69
City of David with gladness
It

.

On this journey:
the children of the Levites bare the Ark of God upon
their shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses had

commanded according to the word of God. 70
Then, finally, David led the joyous procession into Jerusalem
71
'with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet ’,
and with
music played 'on all manner of instruments made of fir wood,
even on harps, and on psalteries, and on timbrels, and on
72
coronets, and on cymbals .’
It had been David’s hope that he would be able to build a
temple in Jerusalem in which the Ark could be housed. In the
event, however, he was not to fulfil this ambition and instead had
to content himself with placing the relic in a simple tent of the

type that had been used during the desert wanderings 73
.

The honour (or the conceit?) of erecting the Temple was
therefore left to another man. As David himself put it before he
died:

As for me, I had it in mine heart to build an house of rest
for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord
and had
made ready for the building
But God said unto me,
Thou shalt not build an house for my name
Solomon
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

thy son, he shall build my house 74
.

.

.

Magic ... or Method?

285

This prophecy was duly fulfilled. At Solomon’s command, work
was started on the Temple around the year 966 bc 75 and was
completed rather more than a decade later, probably in 955 bc ?6
Then, when all was done, the Holy of Holies - a place which the
Lord had ordered should be utterly dark - was made ready to
receive the precious object that it had been built to contain:
.

Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads
of the tribes

.

.

.

that they might bring up the Ark of the

And all the elders of Israel
Covenant of the Lord
came, and the priests took up the Ark. And they brought
And King Solomon, and all
up the Ark of the Lord
the congregation of Israel that were assembled unto him,
were with him before the Ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen
.

.

.

.

.

.

that could not be told nor numbered for multitude. And

the priests brought in the Ark of the Covenant of the

Lord to its place in the Temple ... in the Holy of
Holies. 77

And there the sacred relic remained, enveloped in ‘thick
darkness’, until it mysteriously vanished at some unknown date

between the tenth and sixth centuries bc 78 As I have already
indicated in Chapter 1, absolutely no explanation exists for its
disappearance, which scholars regard as one of the great
unsolved riddles of the Bible. 79 Almost equally puzzling,
however, are the awesome powers that it seems to have possessed
in its heyday - powers portrayed in the Old Testament as
stemming directly from God.
.

Deus ex machina
In trying to understand the Ark, I found myself returning again

and again to the perplexing issue of these powers. What could
have accounted for them? It seemed to me that there were three
possible answers:

1

The Old Testament was right. The Ark was indeed a
repository of divine energies and these energies were

the source of all the ‘miracles’ that it performed.

286
2

A Monstrous Instrument
The Old T estament was wrong. The Ark was just an
ornate casket and the children of Israel were the victims

of a collective mass hallucination that lasted for several

3

hundred years.
The Old T estament was both right and wrong at the same
time. The Ark possessed genuine powers, but those
powers were neither ‘supernatural’ nor divine. On the
contrary, they were man-made.

looked into all three options and concluded that I certainly
could not accept the first unless I was also prepared to accept that
Yahweh, the God of the Israelites, was a psychopathic killer - or a
I

kind of malign genie who lived in a box. Nor could I accept the
second - primarily because the Old Testament, which is a
compilation of books codified in widely different periods, was

remarkably consistent where the Ark was concerned. Throughout
the Scriptures it was the only artefact explicitly and unambiguously portrayed as being imbued with supernatural
energies. All other man-made objects were treated quite matter-

Indeed even exceptionally holy items such as the
seven-branched golden candlestick known as the menorah the
so-called ‘table of the showbread’, and the altar upon which
sacrifices were performed, were clearly understood to be nothing
of-factly.

,

more than important pieces of ritual furniture.
The Ark was therefore quite unique, unrivalled in the special
reverence accorded to it by the scribes, and matchless in the

awesome deeds attributed to it throughout the lengthy period in
which it completely dominated the biblical story. Moreover its
alleged powers showed few signs of having fallen victim to
imaginative literary embellishment. On the contrary, from the

time of its construction at the foot of Mount Sinai until its sudden

and unexplained disappearance hundreds of years later, it
continued to exhibit the same spectacular but limited repertoire.
Thus it continued to lift itself, its bearers, and other objects
around it off the ground; it continued to emit light; it continued to
be associated with a strange ‘cloud’ that materialized ‘between
the cherubim’; it continued to afflict people with ailments like
‘leprosy’ °

and ‘tumours’; and it continued to kill those who
accidentally touched or opened it. Significantly, however, it

Magic ... or Method?

287

exhibited none of the other marvellous characteristics that one

might have expected if a mass hallucination had been involved or
if a great deal of fiction had been allowed to adulterate the record:
for example, it did not make rain; it did not turn water into wine;
it

did not resurrect the dead; it did not drive out devils; and it did

not always win the battles into which it was taken (although it
usually did).

In other words, throughout its history, it consistently behaved
like a

powerful machine that had been designed to carry out

certain very specific tasks

within

its

and that only performed effectively

design parameters

- although even then, like all

machines, it was fallible because of defects in its construction and
because it was subject both to human error and to wear and tear.
I therefore formulated the following hypothesis, in line with
the third alternative set out above: the Old Testament had indeed

been both right and wrong at the same time. The Ark had
possessed genuine powers, but those powers had been neither
supernatural nor divine; on the contrary, they must have been the
products of human skill and ingenuity.
This, of course, was only a theory - a speculation intended to
guide my further research - and it was confronted by a great

many legitimate doubts. Most important of all, how could men
possibly have manufactured so potent a device more than three

thousand years ago, when technology and civilization had
supposedly been at a very rudimentary stage?
This question, I felt, lay at the heart of the mystery. In seeking
to answer it I found that I had to consider first and foremost the
cultural context of the sacred relic - a context that was almost
entirely Egyptian. After all, the Ark was built in the wilderness of
Sinai within a very few months after Moses had led his people out
of their captivity in Egypt - a captivity that had lasted for more
81
It therefore followed that Egypt was
than four hundred years.
the most likely place in which to find clues to the Ark’s true
nature.

Tutankhamen’s legacy
I

became convinced that I was right about this after I had paid a

visit to the Cairo

Museum. Located in the heart of Egypt’s capital

288

A Monstrous Instrument

city, close to the east bank of the Nile, this imposing building is an

unequalled repository of Pharaonic artefacts dating back as far as
the fourth millennium bc. One of the upper floors is given over to
a permanent exhibition of objects recovered from the tomb of
Tutankhamen, the youthful monarch who ruled Egypt from

1352 to 1343 bc - i.e. about a century before the time of
82
I was entranced by this exhibition and spent several
Moses.
hours wandering amongst the display cases amazed at the beauty,
variety and sheer quantity of the relics on view. It did not surprise

me to learn that the renowned British archaeologist Howard
Carter had taken six full years to empty the great sepulchre that

he had found in the Valley of the Kings in 192 2. 83 However,
what interested me most of all about the treasures that he had
unearthed was that they included dozens of Ark-like chests or
boxes, some with carrying poles, some without, but all of them
conceptually similar to the Ark of the Covenant.
By far the most striking of these objects were the four shrines
that had been built to contain the sarcophagus of Tutankhamen.
These shrines, which I studied closely, took the form of large
rectangular caskets that had originally been positioned one inside
the other but that were now installed in separate display cases.
Since each casket was made of wood, and since each, moreover,
was plated ‘inside and out with pure gold’, 84 it was difficult to
resist the conclusion that the mind that had conceived the Ark of
the Covenant must have been familiar with objects like these.
Further support for this inference was provided by the
presence on the doors and rear walls of each of the shrines of two
mythical figures: tall and terrible winged women, fierce and
imperious in stature and visage - like stern angels of vengeance.
These powerful and commanding creatures, placed so as to
provide ritual protection for the precious contents of the tomb,
were thought to be representations of the goddesses Isis and
Nephthys. 85 While that identification in itself held no special
significance for me, I could not help but note that the deities had
their ‘wings spread upwards’ just like the cherubim referred to in
the biblical description of the Ark. They also faced each other
just as the biblical cherubim had done. And although they were
shaped in high relief on the flat planes of the doors (rather than
being distinct pieces of statuary) they were nevertheless

Magic ... or Method?

289

fashioned ‘of beaten gold’ - again very much like the cherubim
described in the Bible.

86

No scholar, I knew, had ever been able to establish exactly
what those cherubim had looked like. There was only consensus
that they could in no way have resembled the chubby angelic
‘cherubs’ of much later western art, which were, at best, sanitized
and Christianized interpretations of a truly ancient and pagan
87

Lost in thought in the Cairo Museum, however, it
seemed to me that the formidable winged guardians of
Tutankhamen’s inter-nested shrines were the closest models
that I was ever likely to find for the two cherubim of the Ark,
which indeed had been conceived as standing sentinel over it and
which had also frequently served as channels for its immense and
deadly power.
concept.

The tabotat of Apet
was subsequently to discover that the Ark’s Egyptian background was wider and deeper even than this. Tutankhamen had
also left another legacy which helped me to understand the full
significance of that background. During a visit to the great temple
at Luxor in Upper Egypt in April 1990, while passing through
the elegant colonnade that extends eastwards from the court of
Rameses II, I came across a story carved in stone - a permanent
and richly illustrated account of the important ‘Festival of Apet’
which had been inscribed here in the fourteenth century bc on
88
Tutankhamen’s direct orders.
Although now badly eroded by the passage of the millennia,
the faded reliefs on the west and east walls of the colonnade were
I

still

sufficiently visible for

me to grasp the rudiments of the

festival, which in Tutankhamen’s time had marked the peak of

the annual Nile flood upon which almost all of Egypt’s agriculture depended.

89
I

already knew that this perennial inundation

(today held back by the

Aswan High Dam with profoundly

unfortunate ecological consequences) had been almost exclu-

product of the long rainy season in the Ethiopian
highlands - a deluge that every year roared down out of Lake
Tana and along the Blue Nile bestowing hundreds of thousands
of tons of rich silt on the farmlands of the Delta and contributing
sively the

290

A Monstrous Instrument

an estimated six-sevenths of the total volume of water in the Nile
90
This opened up the possibility that the Apet
river system.
ceremonials might in some way prove relevant to my quest: after
all, they had celebrated a clear link between the life of ancient
Egypt and events in far-off Ethiopia. Most probably this link had
been no more than a coincidental one to do with climate and
geography; nevertheless I regarded it as being of at least prima
facie interest.
It turned out to be far

more than that.

Studying first the western wall of the colonnade on which the
Tutankhamen reliefs were displayed, my eye was caught by what
appeared to be an Ark, lifted shoulder high on its carrying poles
by a group of priests. Stepping closer I quickly confirmed that
this was

indeed the case: with the sole proviso that the object
being transported took the form of a miniature boat rather than a
casket, the scene before me looked like quite a faithful illustration of the passage in the first book of Chronicles which states
that the Levitical priests of ancient Israel ‘carried the Ark of
God with the shafts on their shoulders as Moses had ordered’. 91
Standing back to get perspective I established that the entire
western wall of the colonnade was covered with images very
similar to the one that had initially attracted my attention. In what
seemed to be a massive and joyous procession I was able to make
out the shapes of several different Ark-like boats being carried on
the shoulders of several different groups of priests, before whom
musicians played on sistra and a variety of other instruments,
acrobats performed, and people danced and sang, clapping their

hands in excitement.

With my pulse quickening I sat down in a patch of shade
around the broken base of a column and reflected on the
implications of the huge sense of deja vu that had just overtaken
me. It was barely three months since I had attended Timkat in
the Ethiopian city of Gondar on 18 and 19 January 1990. The
details of the ceremonials that I had witnessed during those two

days of religious frenzy were therefore still fresh in my mind - so
fresh in fact that

I

could hardly fail to note the similarities

between them and the ecstatic procession portrayed on the
time-worn stones of this Egyptian temple. Both events, I
realized, focussed around a kind of ‘Ark worship’, with the Arks

Magic

or Method?

291

being borne aloft by groups of priests and adored by hysterical
crowds. Nor was this all: Timkat had been characterized by the

performance of wild dances and the playing of musical instruments before the Arks. This sort of behaviour, it was now clear,
had also been an intrinsic part of the Apet festival, right down to
the types of musical instruments used, which in many cases were
identical to those that I had seen in Gondar. Of course the flat
slabs of the tabotat carried on the heads of the Ethiopian priests
were rather different in appearance from the Ark-like boats
carried on the shoulders of their long-dead Egyptian counterparts. From my earlier research, however (detailed at some
length in Chapter 6), I could hardly forget that according to
established etymologies the original meaning of tabot had been
‘ship-like container’. Indeed, as

I

knew very well, the archaic

Hebrew word tebah (from which the Ethiopic term had been
92

had been used in the Bible to refer specifically to
ship-like arks, namely the ark of Noah and the ark of bulrushes in
which the infant Moses had been cast adrift on the Nile. Nor, I
now realized, could it possibly be irrelevant that the Kebra Nagast
had at one point described the Ark of the Covenant as ‘the belly
of a ship’ 93 containing ‘the Two Tables which were written by
derived

)

the finger of God.’ 94

After catching my breath, I stood up and stepped out from my

patch of shade into the fierce mid-day sunlight that bathed the
whole of the colonnade area. I then continued my examination of
the faded reliefs of the Apet festival which, on the western wall,

concerned the bringing of the arks from Karnak to the Temple at
Luxor (a distance of about three miles) and, on the eastern wall,
showed the procession’s eventual return from Luxor back along
the Nile to Karnak again where, with all due ceremony, the
sacred vessels were reinstalled in their original resting places.
Every detail of these complex and beautifully carved scenes
reminded me irresistibly of Timkat in Gondar - which had also
involved an outgoing procession (bringing the tabotat from the
churches to the ‘baptismal’ lake beside the old castle) and a
returning procession (bringing the tabotat back to their home
churches again). Moreover, I could now see clearly that the
bizarre ceremonies I had witnessed in the early morning of 19
January at the lake itself had also been prefigured in the Apet

292

A Monstrous Instrument

festival which, at every stage, appeared to have involved a special

reverence for water (indeed, the reliefs of the early part of the
procession showed that the arks had been carried directly from
the temple to the banks of the Nile, where a number of elaborate
rituals had then been performed).

Scholarly corroboration
After completing

my trip to Egypt in April 1990 I took the

opportunity to carry out some further research into the evidence
that I had stumbled upon there. I discovered that the experts had

no quarrel with my various conjectures. At one meeting, for
example, Kenneth Kitchen, Professor of Egyptology at Liverpool
University, confirmed that the caskets from Tutankhamen’s
tomb that I had seen in the Cairo Museum could indeed have
been prototypes for the Ark of the Covenant: ‘At the very least,’
he said in his broad and rather emphatic Yorkshire accent, ‘they
prove that wooden boxes lined with gold were standard artefacts
of the religious furniture of the period and that Moses would
therefore have had the technology and skills at his disposal to
manufacture the Ark. The methods of construction that he
would have employed, and the use of such prefabricated
structures for religious purposes, are abundantly attested by
actual remains, pictures and texts in Egypt over a long period of
time.’ 95

found scholarly corroboration for the link that I believed
had existed between the festival of Apet and the early Judaic
ceremonies surrounding the Ark of the Covenant. Working
through piles of reference materials in the British Library I came
across a book published in London in 1884 by the Religious
Tract Society and entitled Fresh Light from the Ancient
Monuments. I might have ignored this slim and unprepossessing
volume entirely had I not noticed that its author was a certain
A. H. Sayce (who at the time had been Deputy Professor of
Philology at Oxford University). Remembering that E. A. Wallis
Budge, one of the great authorities on Egyptian religion, had held
Sayce in the highest regard (describing him as a ‘distinguished
96
scholar’ ) I opened the book at a chapter entitled ‘The Exodus
out of Egypt’ and read that, in Sayce’s opinion, ‘the
I also

Magic

•

•

•

or Method?

293

law and ritual of the Israelites’ had been derived from many
sources. Amongst these were ‘various festivals and fasts’ in which

The gods were carried in procession in ‘ships’, which, as
we learn from the sculptures, resembled in form the
Hebrew Ark, and were borne on men’s shoulders by
means of staves. 97
Encouraged by the support

for

my speculations that the

distinguished nineteenth-century professor had given me,

I

looked further through the reference works at my disposal and
was able to confirm that the ship-like arks carried during the

Apet ceremonials had indeed contained gods, or rather small
98
statues of various deities in the Egyptian pantheon.
These
statues had been made of stone and thus, it seemed to me, were
not far removed in concept from the stone ‘Tablets of the
Testimony’ that had supposedly been lodged inside the Ark of
the Covenant and that the Israelites had regarded as embodying
their God. As one Hebrew scholar had put it in a seminal paper
published in the 1920s:

The tradition of the two sacred stone tablets within the
Ark would point strongly to the conclusion that the
original contents of the Ark must have been a sacred
[which] was either conceived of as the deity
stone
himself, or as the object in which the deity was thought to
.

.

.

reside permanently. 99

Nor was this the only connection that I was able to establish
between the Ark of the Covenant and the ship-like arks that had
been carried in the Apet ceremonies. Those ceremonies, it will
be remembered, had taken place in the Upper Egyptian town
now known as ‘Luxor’, a relatively recent name derived from the
Arabic L’Ouqsor (meaning ‘the palaces’). Much earlier, during
the period of Greek influence in Egypt (from about the fifth
century bc) the whole area including the nearby temple at
Karnak had been known as Thebai. Modern Europeans had
subsequently
‘Thebes’.

100

corrupted

this

name

to

the

more

familiar

In the process, however, they had obscured an

294

A Monstrous Instrument

intriguing etymology: the word Thebai had in fact been derived

from Tapet the name by which the Luxor/Karnak religious
complex had been known in the era of Tutankhamen and
Moses 101 And Tapet in its turn was merely the feminine form of
Apet - in other words, Luxor and Karnak had originally been
102
named after the great festival for which they had been famous
a festival that had centred upon a procession in which arks had
been carried between the two temples. What intrigued me about
this, of course, was the phonetic similarity of the words Tapet and
Tabot a similarity that looked all the less coincidental after I had
discovered from one learned source that the shape of the Tapet
arks had evolved over the passing centuries, gradually ceasing to
resemble ships so closely and becoming instead ‘more and more
,

.

,

,

like a chest ’.

103

As noted above, I had long since established that the Ethiopic
term Tabot had been derived from the Hebrew tebah meaning
‘ship-like container’. Now I began to wonder whether it was not
entirely possible that the word tebah had itself originally been
derived from the ancient Egyptian Tapet - and whether this
derivation might not have come about because the ceremonies
devised for the Ark of the Covenant had been modelled upon
,

those of the Apet festival

104
.

Such links and coincidences, though by no means attaining the
stature of hard evidence, did deepen my conviction that the Ark
of the Covenant could only properly be understood in the context

of its Egyptian background. Amongst other things, as Professor

Kitchen had pointed out, that background demonstrated that
Moses would have had the technology and skills at his disposal to
fulfil God’s command to build an ‘Ark of acacia wood’ and ‘to
plate it inside and out with pure gold’.
At the same time, however, the sacred relic had been much
more than just a wooden box lined with gold. I therefore
wondered whether an explanation of its baleful and destructive
powers might also be found in Egypt.
Seeking such an explanation I travelled to that country several
times and talked to theologians, biblical scholars and archaeologists. I also surrounded myself with rare books, religious texts,
folklore, myths and legends and tried to discern whether threads
of fact might not lie entangled amongst the wilder fancies.

.

Magic ... or Method?

295

As my research progressed I became increasingly intrigued by
the personality of Moses, the Hebrew prophet and law-giver who

who led the children of Israel to the
Promised Land, and who also ordered the construction of the

challenged Pharaoh,

Ark of the Covenant after he had supposedly received the
‘blueprint’ for its design from God Himself. The more closely I
looked at this towering, heroic figure, the more convinced I
became that information of fundamental importance to my
understanding of the Ark would be found within the records of
his life.

‘A magician of the highest order

.

Muslim and Jew alive
in the world today has a shadowy image of the prophet Moses
tucked away in some corner of his or her mind. Certainly I was no
exception to this rule when I began to think seriously about him
It is probably the case that every Christian,

and about his role in the mystery of the Ark. My problem,
however, was that I needed to flesh out the caricature that I had
acquired in Sunday school and, in the process, to gain some real
insight into the
figure

in

religion’.

the

man who scholars agree was ‘the outstanding
emergence

and

of the Jewish

formulation

105

Of considerable help to me in completing this task were the
extensive and highly regarded historical writings of Flavius

Josephus, a Pharisee who lived in Roman-occupied Jerusalem in
the first century ad. In his Antiquities of the Jem compiled from
,

traditions and reference materials unavailable today, this diligent

scholar chronicled the four hundred years of Hebrew enslave-

ment in Egypt, which lasted roughly from 1650 until 1250 bc,
106
The birth of Moses was the
the probable date of the Exodus.
key event of this period and was, Josephus said, the subject of a
prophecy by an Egyptian ‘sacred scribe’, a person ‘with considerable skill of accurately predicting the future’, who informed

Pharaoh that there would arise amongst the Israelites
one who would abase the sovereignty of the Egyptians
were he reared to manhood, and would surpass all men in
virtue and win everlasting renown. Alarmed thereat, the

296

A Monstrous Instrument
%

king, on the sage’s advice, ordered that every male child

born to the Israelites should be destroyed by being cast into
the river.

107

On hearing this edict a certain Amram (Moses’s father-to-be)
was plunged into ‘grievous perplexity’ because ‘his wife was then
with child’. God, however, appeared to him in a dream and
comforted him with the news that:
This child, whose birth has filled the Egyptians with such
dread that they have condemned to destruction all the
offspring of the Israelites, shall escape those who are

watching to destroy him, and, reared in marvellous wise,
he shall deliver the Hebrew race from their bondage in
Egypt, and be remembered so long as the universe shall
endure, not by Hebrews alone but even by alien
nations.

108

These two passages were helpful to me because they considerably expanded the biblical narrative on the birth of Moses given
in the opening chapters of the book of Exodus. I noted with
interest that the great legislator of the Jews had indeed been
remembered ‘even by alien nations’. More intriguing by far,
however, was the special emphasis put on the prophecy of the
‘sacred scribe’ who, with his ability to foretell the future, could

only have been an astrologer at the court of the Pharaoh. In

making this point, Josephus seemed to be hinting that - from the
outset - there had been something almost magical about Moses.
In the time-honoured tradition of setting a thief to catch a thief,
what we had here was a magician predicting the coming of a
magician.

The bare bones of the events that occurred after the child was
born are too familiar to require lengthy repetition: aged only
three months he was placed by his parents in a papyrus basket
coated with bitumen and pitch and cast adrift on the Nile;
downriver Pharaoh’s daughter was bathing; she saw the floating
crib, heard cries, and sent her handmaiden to rescue the mewling
infant.

Subsequently Moses was brought up in the royal household

Magic ... or Method?

297

where, according to the Bible, he was instructed ‘in all the
wisdom of the Egyptians’. 109 Josephus had little to add at this
point, but another classical authority - Philo, the respected

Jewish philosopher who lived around the time of Christ - gave a
fairly detailed account of exactly what Moses was taught:
‘Arithmetic, geometry, the lore of metre, rhythm and harmony
were imparted to him by learned Egyptians. These further
instructed him in the philosophy conveyed in symbols as
displayed in the so-called holy inscriptions.’ Meanwhile ‘inhabi-

were assigned to teach him
‘Assyrian letters and the Chaldean science of the heavenly
bodies. This he also acquired from the Egyptians, who gave
tants of neighbouring countries’

special attention to astrology.’

110

Reared as an adopted son of the royal family, Moses was seen
for a considerable period as a successor to the throne.

111

The

implication of this special status, I learned, was that in his youth

he would have been given a thorough initiation into all the most
arcane priestly secrets and into the mysteries of Egyptian
112
- a course of study that would have included not only
magic
star-knowledge, as indicated by Philo, but also necromancy,
113
divining and other aspects of occult lore.
A clue that this may indeed have been so was given in the Bible,
where Moses was described as being ‘mighty in words and
114
In the cogent and dependable judgment of that great
deeds’.
scholar and linguist Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, this phrase - also and
perhaps not coincidentally applied to Jesus Christ 15 - contained
the coded suggestion that the Hebrew prophet was ‘strong of
tongue’, like the Egyptian goddess Isis. What this meant, though
1

Moses was self-confessedly lacking in oratorical eloquence,

116

was that he must have been capable of uttering words of power
‘which he knew with correct pronunciation, and halted not in his
speech, and was perfect both in giving the command and in
saying the word.’ 17 As such, again like Isis - who was famous for
her proficiency in all kinds of witchcraft - he would have been
equipped to cast the most potent spells. Others around him
would therefore have treated him with a high degree of respect
since they would unquestioningly have believed him capable of
bending reality and overriding the laws of physics by altering the
normal order of things.
1

298

A Monstrous Instrument

was able to turn up a considerable body of evidence from the
Old Testament to support the contention that Moses had been
seen in exactly this way. There was, nevertheless, one important
proviso: his magic was depicted throughout as being wrought
solely at the command of Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews.
According to the book of Exodus, Moses’s first encounter with
Yahweh took place in a wilderness near the land of Midian (to
which he had fled to escape retribution after his anger at the
persecution of Hebrew labourers had led him to kill an Egyptian
overseer). From the geographical clues that were given, it was
clear that this wilderness must have been located in the southern
part of the Sinai peninsula, most probably within sight of the peak
118
(where Moses was later to receive the
of Mount Sinai itself
Ten Commandments and the ‘blueprint’ for the Ark). The Bible,
at any rate, spoke of ‘the mountain of God’ and placed Moses at
its foot when the Lord appeared to him ‘in a flame of fire out of
the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned
119
with fire, and the bush was not consumed.’
God instructed
Moses that he should return to Egypt in order to lead his people
120
Before agreeing, however, the
out of their bondage there.
prophet asked the name of the strange and powerful being who
121
had addressed him.
This daring question in itself contained evidence of Moses’s
identity as a sorcerer for, as the great anthropologist Sir James
Frazer observed in his seminal work The Golden Bough
I

:

Every Egyptian magician
believed that he who
possessed the true name possessed the very being of god
or man, and could force even a deity to obey him as a
slave obeys his master. Thus the art of the magician
consisted in obtaining from the gods a revelation of their
sacred names, and he left no stone unturned to
122
accomplish his end.
.

.

.

The Lord, however, did not respond directly to the prophet’s
question. Instead he replied briefly and enigmatically with these

words: ‘I

AM WHO

I

AM.’ By way of further clarification he

then added: ‘I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the

God of Isaac and the God ofjacob.’ 123

Magic

•

•

•

or Method?

299

The phrase ‘I am who I am’ (or ‘I am what I am’, ‘I am that I
am’, depending on the translation) was, I discovered, the root

meaning of the name Yahweh used in the Old Testament - and
subsequently bastardized in the Authorized King James Version
of the Bible as ‘Jehovah’. This name, however, was no name;
rather it was an evasive formula based loosely on the Hebrew
verb ‘to be’ and written as four consonants which transliterated
into the Latin alphabet as ‘YHWH’. Known to theologians as the

tetragrammaton, these letters revealed nothing beyond the active
existence of God and thus continued to conceal the diving identity

from modern researchers every bit as effectively as they had once
done from Moses. Indeed so potent was their mystery that no
one today could even claim to know exactly how they should be
pronounced; rendering the tetragrammaton as ‘Yahweh’ by the
insertion of the vowels ‘a’ and ‘e’ was, however, the accepted
convention.

124

The importance of all this from the biblical perspective was
that the deity knew, and pronounced, the name of Moses; Moses,
by contrast, only managed

to

obtain from

Him the ritual

am who I am’. Henceforward, therefore, the
prophet was bound to answer to God and to do his bidding;
incantation

‘I

likewise all his sorcery in the future would derive from the power

of God, and from the power of God alone.
It was understandable that the later redactors of the Scriptures
should have wanted to present the relationship between omnipotent God and fallible man in precisely this way. What they

could not do, however, was erase the evidence that that man had
indeed been a sorcerer; neither could they cover up the most
convincing demonstrations of his sorcery - the plagues and
pestilences that he was soon to inflict upon the Egyptians in order
to force Pharaoh to release the children of Israel from captivity.

In working these terrible miracles Moses was assisted by his

older half-brother Aaron, who frequently served as his agent and

spokesman. Both Moses and Aaron were also equipped with rods
- effectively magicians’ wands - which they used to work their
spells. That of Moses was sometimes referred to as ‘the rod of
God’ 125 and first appeared when the prophet complained to
Yahweh that neither Pharaoh, nor the children of Israel, would
believe that he had been divinely commissioned, unless he was

300

A Monstrous Instrument

able to provide some kind of proof. ‘What is that in thine hand?’

God asked. ‘A rod,’ Moses replied. 126 God then told him to
throw it on the ground ‘that they may believe that the Lord God
hath appeared unto thee’:

And he cast it on the ground and it became a serpent;
and Moses fled from before it. And the Lord said unto
Moses, Put forth thine hand and take it by the tail. And
he put forth his hand and caught it, and it became a rod
127
in his hand.

Once again the emphasis put by the scriptural text on the
primacy of God’s role in all of this was understandable. Once
again also, however, the connections with Egyptian occult
practice were quite unmissable.

The turning of an inanimate

and then back again into a stick, was a feat
frequently carried out by the magicians of that country; likewise
the power to control the movements of venomous reptiles was
claimed by Egyptian priests from the very earliest times; last but
not least, all Egyptian magicians - amongst them the sage Abaaner and the sorceror-king Nectanebus - possessed marvellous
stick into a snake,

rods made of ebony.

128

Looked at in this light, I did not find it surprising that the first
contests between Moses and Aaron on one side, and the priests at
Pharaoh’s court on the other, were

fairly

evenly drawn.

To

impress the Egyptian tyrant, Aaron threw down his rod - which,
of course, became a serpent as soon as it hit the ground.

Undaunted Pharaoh called for his own sages and sorcerers, ‘and
with their witchcraft the magicians of Egypt did the same. Each
threw his staff down and these turned into serpents.’ Then,
however, Aaron’s rod - imbued with the superior power of
Yahweh - swallowed up the rods of the magicians. 129
In the next encounter Moses and Aaron turned the waters of
the Nile to blood. Remarkable though this trick was, Pharaoh

remained unimpressed because ‘the magicians of Egypt used
130
their witchcraft to do the same.’
The plague of frogs, which followed, was likewise matched by
131
Pharaoh’s sorcerers.
But the plague of mosquitoes (gnats in
some translations, lice in others) was too much for them: ‘The

Magic ... or Method?

301

magicians with their witchcraft tried to produce mosquitoes and
failed.

The mosquitoes

attacked

men and

beasts.

So

magicians said to Pharaoh, “This is the finger of God.”
Still the hard-hearted king refused to let the

was punished

for

this

with a plague of

’

the

I32

Hebrews go. He

flies

133

and soon

afterwards with a pestilence that killed livestock. 134 Moses next

caused a plague of boils to break out (he did this by throwing a
handful of soot into the air 135 ) and then, by using his rod, he
procured thunder and hail, a plague of locusts and three days of
136
‘thick darkness’.
Finally, the Hebrew prophet arranged for
the death of ‘all the first-born of the land of Egypt: the first-born
of Pharaoh, the first-born of the prisoner in his dungeon, and the
137
After this: ‘The Egyptians urged
first-born of all the cattle.’
the people to hurry up and leave the land because, they said,
138
“Otherwise we shall all be dead”.’
So the Exodus began, and with it a prolonged period of danger
and enchantment during which, at the foot of Mount Sinai, the
Ark of the Covenant was built. Before reaching Sinai, however,
the Red Sea had to be crossed. Here Moses gave another
dramatic demonstration of his prowess in the occult arts:

And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the
Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all
that night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters

were divided. And the children of Israel went into the
midst of the sea upon the dry ground: and the waters
were a wall unto them on their right hand and on their
left.

139

As everyone who has ever attended Sunday school will remember, the pursuing Egyptian forces followed the Israelites into ‘the

midst of the sea, even all Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots and his
140
Then:
horsemen.’

Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea - and the
waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the

horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the
sea after them; there remained not so much as one of
them. But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in

1

302

A Monstrous Instrument

the midst of the sea; and the waters were a wall unto them on
their right hand, and on their left.

1

4

Again, and predictably, the Bible put emphasis on the power of

God: Moses may have stretched out his hand a couple of times
but it was the Lord who ‘caused the waters to go back’ - and to
‘return’. I found it slightly harder to accept the scriptural party-

on this, however, after I had learned that the ability to
command the waters of seas and lakes had also frequently been
claimed by Egyptian priests and magicians. For example, one of
the ancient documents that I studied (the Westcar Papyrus)
related a story from the early Fourth Dynasty - some i ,500 years
before the time of Moses - which focussed on the doings of a
certain Tchatcha-em-ankh, a Kher Heb or High Priest attached
to the court of Pharaoh Seneferu. Apparently the Pharaoh was
out boating one day in the pleasant company of ‘twenty young
virgins having beautiful heads of hair and lovely forms and
shapely limbs.’ One of these ladies dropped a much- favoured
ornament of hers into the lake and was broken-hearted to have
lost it. The Pharaoh, however, summoned Tchatcha-em- ankh
line

whospake certain words of power (hekau) and having thus

caused one section of the water of the lake to go upon the
other, he found the ornament lying upon a pot-sherd, and
he took it and gave it to the maiden. Now the water was
twelve cubits deep, but when Tchatcha-em-ankh had
lifted up one section of the water onto the other, that
portion became four and twenty cubits deep. The
magician again uttered certain words of power, and the
water of the lake became as it had been before he had
caused one portion of it to go up onto the other. 142

While of course to do with a much more trivial incident, the
story in the Westcar Papyrus nevertheless contained many points
that I could only regard as startlingly similar to the parting of the

waters of the Red Sea. This, in my view, left no room for doubt
that Moses’s virtuoso performance in bringing about the great

miracle established him firmly in an ancient, and very Egyptian

,

Magic ... or Method?
A. Wallis Budge,

who

303

had first
encountered through his translation of the KebraNagast but who
had also been keeper of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities at the
British Museum, had this to say on the subject:
occult tradition.

Sir E.

I

,

Moses was a skilled performer of magical rituals and was
deeply learned in the knowledge of the accompanying
spells, incantations, and magical formulas of every

[Moreover] the miracles which he
wrought
suggest that he was not only a priest, but a
magician of the highest order and perhaps even a Kher
description
.

Heb

.

.

.

.

.

I43
.

Secret science?

As a Kher Heb (High Priest) of the Egyptian temple Moses would
undoubtedly have had access to a substantial corpus of esoteric
wisdom and of magico-religious ‘science’ that the priestly guilds
kept secret from the laity. I knew that modern Egyptologists
accepted that such a body of knowledge had existed. 144 I also
knew that they had very little idea as to what it might actually have
consisted of: obscure references to it appeared in inscriptions in
the tombs of senior temple officials but almost nothing of any

substance had survived in written form.

A great deal was

probably passed on in an exclusively oral tradition confined to
145
Scholarly opinion had it, however, that most of the
initiates.
rest had been destroyed, either deliberately or accidentally.

Who

could possibly guess what treasures of learning were lost when
fire ravaged the great library at Alexandria - a library that was
reputed, by the second century bc, to have contained more than
146

200^000 scrolls?
There was, however, one matter on which there was no need
to speculate: as Herodotus put it in the fifth century bc, ‘Egypt
has more wonders in it than any country in the world and more
works that are beyond description than anywhere else.’ Amongst
other achievements, this widely travelled Greek historian whose books are still in print - rightly credited the Egyptians with

being ‘the first of mankind to invent the year and to make twelve
divisions of the seasons for it’. Herodotus also claimed to have

304

A Monstrous Instrument

penetrated some of the mysteries of the Egyptian priesthood, but
then, rather tantalizingly, added that he could not - or would not

- reveal what he had learned. 147
Herodotus was not the first or the last visitor to Egypt to come
away with the distinct impression that there were hidden secrets
there - and that there might be more to these secrets than mere
religious mumbo-jumbo. Indeed the notion that this ancient
culture originally promoted itself to greatness through the
application of some kind of advanced, but now lost, scientific
knowledge was, I discovered, one of the most durable and
pervasive in human history: it had proved equally attractive to
furious cranks and sober scholars and had been the subject of

immense amounts of controversy, acrimony, wild speculation
and serious research.
It was a notion, furthermore, that impinged directly upon my
quest because it raised an intriguing possibility: as a magician
skilled in Egyptian ‘sacred science’, might not Moses have had at
his disposal far more in the way of knowledge and technology
than had hitherto been recognized by the archaeologists? And
might he not have applied this knowledge and technology to the
construction of the Ark of the Covenant?
Such a hypothesis seemed worthy of further investigation. I
quickly discovered, however, that what was known about the
technological achievements of the ancient Egyptians raised at
least as many questions as it answered.
It

was

clear,

were clever
particular, was quite

for example, that these people

metalworkers: their gold jewellery, in

showing a degree of craftsmanship rarely equalled
since. It was also notable, from the very earliest times, that the
edges of their copper tools were brought to a remarkable degree
of hardness - so hard, in fact, that they could cut through schist
and the toughest limestone. No modern blacksmith, I learned,
would have been able to achieve such results with copper; it was
thought likely, however, that any ‘lost art’ lay less in the
manufacture of the tools than in the manner in which they were
manipulated on site by the stonemasons. 148
A study of many surviving hieroglyphs and papyri left me in no
doubt that the ancient Egyptians were - at the very least moderate mathematicians in the modern sense. They employed
exquisite,

Magic ... or Method?

305

unit fractions and appeared to have developed a special form of

them to compute the
volume of complex objects. 149 It also seemed highly probable,
more than 2,000 years before the Greeks, that they had
understood how to use the transcendental number pi to derive
infinitesimal

calculus which enabled

the circumference of any circle from its diameter.

150

Egyptian observational astronomy was another area in which
great progress appeared to have been made at a very early date.

According to Livio Stecchini, an American professor of the
history of science and an expert on ancient measurement,
astronomical techniques in use as early as 2200 bc had enabled
Egyptian priests to calculate the length of a degree of latitude and
longitude to within a'few hundred feet - an achievement that was
not to be equalled by other civilizations for almost 4,000
years.

151

The Egyptians also excelled in medicine: their surgeons were
skilled in a variety of difficult procedures,

152

their understanding

of the human nervous system was refined, and their pharmacopoeia included several well known drugs in their first-recorded
applications.
I

153

came across many further pieces of evidence which illustra-

ted the relatively advanced state of Egyptian knowledge at a time

when the European peoples were still plunged in barbarism. In

my view, however, none of the data suggested the existence of any
science that we would regard as truly breathtaking today, nor of

any branch of technical achievement sufficiently sophisticated to
account for the potent energies that the Ark of the Covenant had
been able to unleash. Nevertheless, as I have already noted, the
belief that the Egyptians were the guardians of some ‘great and
secret wisdom’ was widespread and almost immune to counterargument.

knew very well that such ardent conviction often stemmed
more from a subconscious desire to glorify the past of the human
I

species than from any rational weighing up of empirical facts.

This, certainly, was the dominant opinion of members of the
archaeological establishment, most of whom regarded the ‘great

and secret wisdom’ theory as balderdash and claimed to have
found nothing extraordinary in Egypt in more than a century of
painstaking digging and sifting. I myself am sceptical and

306

A Monstrous Instrument

pragmatic by nature. Nevertheless I must confess that the
physical evidence which I saw everywhere around me during the
series of research trips that I made to this beautiful and time-

worn land convinced me that the academics did not have all the
answers, that much remained to be explained, and that there

were a number of aspects of the Egyptian experience which had
been lamentably under-researched simply because they were
beyond the scope of conventional archaeology - and probably of
all other accepted forms of scholarly investigation as well.
Three sites had a particularly profound impact on me: the
temple complex at Karnak; the Zoser ‘step’ pyramid at Saqqara;
and the Great Pyramid at Giza on the outskirts of Cairo. It
seemed to me that the special composite quality of raw power,
delicate grace, imposing grandeur, mystery and immortality that
these edifices possessed stemmed from the working out within
them of a refined and highly developed understanding of
harmony and proportion - an understanding that could reasonably be said to have amounted to a science. Combining
engineering, architecture and design, that science had been
remarkable by any standards. It had never since been surpassed
in its ability to stimulate religious awe, and it had been equalled in
Europe only in the great Gothic cathedrals of the Middle Ages
such as Chartres.
Was this an accident? Was the essentially similar effect on the
senses of the Egyptian monuments and the Gothic cathedrals a
matter of pure chance - or was there perhaps a connection?
I had long suspected that there had indeed been a connection
and that the Knights Templar, through their discoveries during
the Crusades, might have formed the missing link in the chain of
transmission of secret architectural knowledge. 154 At Karnak, as
I walked slowly past the looming pylons, into the Great Court,
and through the forest of giant columns of the Hypostyle Hall, I
could not help but remember that Saint Bernard of Clairvaux,
the Templars’ patron, had defined God - astonishingly for a
Christian - as 'length, width, height and depth’. 155 Nor could I
forget that the Templars themselves had been great builders and
great architects, or that the Cistercian monastic order to which
Saint Bernard had belonged had also excelled in this particular
field of

human endeavour. 156

Magic ... or Method?

307

Centuries and civilizations before them, however, it had been
the ancient Egyptians who had been the

first

masters of the

science of building - the first and still the greatest architect-

masons that the world had ever known. Moreover, the monuments that they left behind beggared description and challenged
time itself. Typical in this respect were two tall obelisks that
dominated the Karnak complex and that I found myself particularly drawn to on my own visits there. One, I discovered, had
been erected by Pharaoh Tuthmosis I (1504-1492 bc) and the
other by Queen Hatshepsut (1473-1458 bc ). 157 Both were
perfect monoliths, hewn from single slabs of solid pink granite,
the former standing 70 feet in height and weighing an estimated
143 tons, the latter standing 97 feet in height and weighing an
158
A few minutes’ walk to the south,
estimated 320 tons.
overlooking a sacred lake that was used by the temple priests for
elaborate purification ceremonies, I found a third, but tumbled
and broken, obelisk, the top 30 feet of which - surmounted by a
finely pointed pyramidion - were nevertheless quite undamaged.
On one occasion, following the advice of a guidebook I had with
me, 159 I stepped over the rope perimeter surrounding this fallen
giant and placed my ear to the angle of the pyramidion. I then
struck the granite firmly with the palm of my hand and listened,
entranced, as the entire monolith reverberated with a deep, low-

pitched tone like some strange and prodigious musical instru-

ment.

seemed to me that this phenomenon could not possibly have
been accidental. On the contrary, the enormous care and skill
required to produce such a monolith (when the same plendid
visual effect might have been achieved simply by cementing block
on block) only really made sense if the ancient Egyptians had
wanted to realize some special property inherent in a single piece
It

f

of stone.
Something, at any rate, other than mere aesthetic considerations must have lain behind the erection of these elegant and
flawless stelae. I learned that they had not been hewn locally but
rather had been transported by river from granite quarries more

than 200 kilometres to the south.
The Nile was a highway broad and deep. It was therefore
reasonable to suppose, once the obelisks had been loaded upon

308

A Monstrous Instrument

barges, that it would not have been so difficult a matter to float

them downstream. What I found much harder to understand,
however, was the method that the ancient Egyptians had
employed to get these massive needles of stone on to the barges
in the first place - and then off them again once they had arrived
at their destination. One monolith had been left in situ at the
quarries, only partially separated from the bedrock, because it
cracked before it was completely excavated. Had this accident not
befallen it, however, it would have made an obelisk 137 feet high
and almost 14 feet thick at its base. Obviously, when the work was
started, it had been confidently intended that this monstrous object
- weighing a staggering 1,168 tons 160 - would be moved and
erected somewhere. Yet it was extremely difficult to explain exactly
how that would have been done by a people who (according to the
161
archaeologists) lacked even simple winches and pulley systems.
Indeed I knew that the task of moving so large a piece of solid stone
over a distance of several hundred feet - never mind several
hundred kilometres! - would have taxed to the limit the ingenuity of
a modem team of construction engineers supported by the most
sophisticated and powerful machinery.
Equally puzzling, once the monoliths reached Karnak, was the
manner in which they had been set upright on their pedestals
with such faultless accuracy. In one of the temples a relief
depicted Pharaoh raising an obelisk with no assistance of any
162
kind and making use of just a single piece of rope.
It was quite
normal for the ruler to be portrayed in heroic poses and perhaps
all that was intended here was a symbolic representation of a real
process in which hundreds of labourers were trained to pull
together on multiple ropes. However, I could not rid myself of
the suspicion that there must have been more to it than this.
According to John Anthony West, an experienced Egyptologist,
the Pharaohs and priests were preoccupied with a principle

known as Ma 'at- often translated as ‘equilibrium’ or ‘balance’. It
was possible, he suggested, that this principle might have been
carried over into practical spheres and ‘that the Egyptians
understood and used techniques of mechanical balance unknown to us’. Such techniques would have enabled them to
‘manipulate these immense stones with ease and finesse
What would be magic to us was method to them.’ 163
.

.

.

Magic ... or Method?

309

If the obelisks, at times, seemed like the products of almost

superhuman skill, I had to admit that the Pyramids in all ways
surpassed them. As Jean Frangois Champollion, the founder of
modern Egyptology, once remarked, ‘the Egyptians of old
thought like men a hundred feet tall. We in Europe are but
Lilliputians.’

164

Certainly, when I first entered the Great Pyramid at Giza, I felt
like a Lilliputian - dwarfed and slightly intimidated, not only by

the sheer mass and size of this mountain of stone but also by an

almost tangible sense of the accumulated weight of the ages.

On previous visits I had only seen the exterior of the pyramid,
since I had felt no desire to join the swarms of tourists pouring

Early in the morning of 27 April 1990, however, I
managed by means of a small bribe to get into the great structure
inside.

completely on my own. In the dim light provided by a series of lowwattage bulbs, and bent over almost double to avoid hitting my

head on the rock face above, I climbed the 129 feet of the
ascending passage, and then the 157 feet of the more spacious
Grand Gallery, until I reached the so-called ‘King’s Chamber’
- a 2:1 rectangle, the floor of which measured 34 feet 4 inches
by 17 feet 2 inches. Just over 19 feet high, the ceiling of this room
- which occupied the very heart of the pyramid - consisted of
nine monolithic blocks of granite each weighing approximately
165

50 tons.
I do not remember how long I remained in the chamber. The
atmosphere was musty, and the air warm - like the exhalation of
some giant beast. The silence that surrounded me seemed
absolute, all-enveloping, and dense. At some point, for a reason
that I cannot explain, I moved to the middle of the floor and gave
voice to a sustained low-pitched tone like the song of the fallen
obelisk at Karnak. The walls and the ceiling seemed to collect
this sound, to gather and amplify it - and then to project it back at

me so that I could sense the returning vibrations through my feet
and scalp and skin. I felt electrified and energized, excited and at
the same time calm, as though I stood on the brink of some
tremendous and absolutely inevitable revelation.
After my April 1990 visit I was so impressed by the Great
Pyramid that I spent several weeks researching its history. I
discovered that it had been built around 2550 bc for Kufu (or

310

A Monstrous Instrument

Cheops), the second Pharaoh of the Fourth Dynasty, and that it
166
was also the single largest edifice ever constructed by man.

The conventional belief amongst archaeologists was that it had
been designed purely and simply as a tomb. This conjecture,
however, struck me as being utterly incomprehensible: no
mummy of any Pharaoh had ever been found there, only a poor
and undecorated sarcophagus in the so-called King’s Chamber
(a sarcophagus, by the way, that was lidless and completely empty
when it was first brought to light by Caliph Al-Mamun, an Arab
ruler of Egypt who broke in with a party of diggers in the ninth
century ad 167)
.

As I researched the subject further it became clear to me that
the real purpose of the Great Pyramid was, in fact, a matter of

considerable debate. On one side stood the most orthodox and
prosaic scholars insisting that

it

was nothing more than

a

mausoleum. On the other side stood the pyramidologists - an
apocalyptic tribe who pretended to find all manner of prophecies

and signs in virtually every dimension of the immense structure.
The lunacies of this latter group were perhaps best summarized by one US critic who pointed out that it is possible to
marshal numbers to prove almost anything: 'If a suitable unit of
measurement is used, an exact equivalent to the distance to
Timbuktu is certain to be found in the number of street lamps in
Bond Street, or the specific gravity of mud, or the mean weight of
adult goldfish.’

168

This, of course, was quite true. Nevertheless, I could see that
there were certain surprising features to which the pyramidologists persistently drew attention which did seem unlikely to be

accidental.

For example,

it

was

a fact that the latitude

and

longitude lines that intersected at the Great Pyramid (30 degrees

north and 31 degrees east) crossed more dry land than any
others. This put the edifice at the very centre of the habitable
world.

169

Likewise,

it

was a

fact that

when a north-facing

quadrant (a cake-slice-shaped quarter circle) was drawn on a
map with its axis at the pyramid then this quadrant exactly
170
encapsulated the entire Nile Delta.
Finally, it was a fact that
all the pyramids at Giza were precisely aligned to the cardinal
171
points - north, south, east and west.
It was, I thought,
extremely difficult to explain how this particular feat of surveying

1

Magic ... or Method?

31

could have been achieved so long before the supposed date of the
invention of the compass.

What intrigued me most of all about the Great Pyramid,
however, was simply its sheer size and scope. Occupying a
ground area of 13. 1 acres, I ascertained that the core masonry of
the structure was composed of no less than 2.3 million blocks of
172
limestone
each weighing approximately 2.5
tonnes.
Herodotus, whose informant was an Egyptian priest, claimed
that gangs of 100,000 labourers built the edifice in 20 years
(working only during the three-month agricultural lay-off
season), and that the construction technique involved ‘levers
made of short timbers’ which were used to lift the massive blocks
from ground level. 173 No researcher subsequently had been
able to guess at exactly what these ‘levers’ might have been or
how they could have been used. However, after taking account of
the time required for all the site-clearing, quarrying, levelling
and other works that would have had to be done, civil engineer P.
Garde-Hanson of the Danish Engineering Institute calculated
that 4,000 blocks would have had to be installed each day, at the
rate of 6.67 blocks per minute, if the job were indeed to have
been completed within 20 years. ‘Generally speaking,’ he
concluded, ‘I believe it would demand the combined genius of a
Cyrus, an Alexander the Great, and a Julius Caesar, with a
Napoleon and Wellington thrown in for good measure, to
organize the armies required for carrying out the work as
assumed.’ 174
then learned that a team of Japanese engineers had recently
tried to build a 35-feet-high replica of the Great Pyramid (rather
smaller than the original, which was 481 feet 5 inches in height).
I

The team started off by limiting itself strictly to techniques
proved by archaeology to have been in use during the Fourth
Dynasty. However, construction of the replica under these
limitations turned out to be impossible and, in due course,
modern earth-moving, quarrying and lifting machines were
brought to the site. Still no worthwhile progress was made.
Ultimately, with some embarrassment, the project had to be
abandoned. 175
All in all, therefore, the Great Pyramid - with its many riddles
and mysteries - suggested to me that the ancient Egyptians must

312

A Monstrous Instrument

have been much more than ‘technically accomplished primitives’ (as

they had often been described), and that there must

have existed amongst them a special kind of scientific knowledge. If so then it was entirely possible that the baleful powers
of the Ark of the Covenant could have been the products of that
science - in which Moses would most certainly have been a

leading practitioner.

48

The construction of the Ark of the Covenant
at the foot of Mount Sinai.

MM

49 Glowing with fire and light the Ark is transported
through the wilderness wrapped in thick cloths
to protect its bearers from its unearthly powers.

50

The Ark at the destruction of Jericho.

51

King Uzziah smitten with leprosy after approaching the Ark
(see Chapter Fifteen, ‘Hidden History’, page 413).

52

Nadab and Abihu, two of the sons of Aaron,
are struck dead as they approach the Ark.

iixo dXXXlV .Yer.

t/mj/
53 After receiving the tablets of stone,
which he later placed inside the Ark,

Moses’ face was burnt and shone so terribly
that ever afterwards he had to wear a veil.

.

55 Archaeologists at work on the site

of the Jewish Temple on the island
of Elphantine, upper Egypt.

56 and 57. Above this Ark-like chest, transported on two carrying poles, was
recovered from the tomb of Tutankhamen. Below, the author examining a
mysterious engraving on a fallen stele in Axum. The engraving bears an
extraordinary resemblance to the Ark from Tutankhamen’s tomb and may
be the earliest Axumite representation of the Ark of the Covenant.
Tutankhamen reigned in Egypt approximately 100 years before Moses led
the Exodus. It is therefore probable that the Hebrew prophet devised the
Ark according to an Egyptian prototype of precisely the kind found in
:

Tutankhamen’s tomb.

58 Priests and deacons
at prayer,

Timkat Axum.
,

59 Timkat procession, Axum.

60 The sanctuary of the Ark of the Covenant at Axum.

61

Gebra Mikail,
the Guardian of the Ark.

Chapter 13

Treasures of Darkness

My research had convinced me of the possibility that the ancient
Egyptians might have possessed some advanced but secret

knowledge which Moses could have applied to the
design of the Ark of the Covenant.
But where could such a body of knowledge have come from?
Ancient Egypt itself, as I was very well aware, provided a simple though supernatural - answer to this question. Every relevant
surviving record that I had studied claimed unambiguously that it
had been given to mankind by the moon-god Thoth, the lord and
multiplier of time, the celestial scribe and invigilator of individual
destinies, the inventor of writing and of all wisdom, and the
patron of magic
Frequently represented on temple and tomb walls as an ibis, or
as an ibis-headed man, and more rarely as a baboon, Thoth was
venerated throughout Egypt as a true lunar deity who in some
manifestations was identical with the moon itself and in others
was the guardian of the moon, charged with ensuring that it kept
to its course across the night skies, waxing and waning, vanishing
and reappearing, precisely as and when it should. It was in this
scientific

1

.

capacity

- as the

divine regulative force responsible for

all

heavenly calculations and annotations - that Thoth measured
time, dividing it into months (to the first of which he gave his own

name ). 2
His powers, however, were believed to have extended far
beyond the mere calibration of the seasons. According to the
pervasive and influential teachings of the priestly guild established at the sacred city of Hermopolis in Upper Egypt, Thoth
was the universal demiurge who created the world through the

314

A Monstrous Instrument

sound of his voice alone, bringing it into being with the utterance
of a single word of power. 3
Regarded by the Egyptians as a deity who understood the
mysteries of ‘all that is hidden under the heavenly vault’, Thoth

was also believed to have had the ability to bestow wisdom on
certain specially selected individuals. It was said that he had
inscribed the rudiments of his secret knowledge on 36,535
scrolls and then hidden these scrolls about the earth intending
that they should be sought for by future generations but found
‘only by the worthy’ - who were to use their discoveries for the
benefit of mankind. 4

Later identified by the Greeks with their own god Hermes,

Thoth in fact stood at the very centre of an enormous body of
Egyptian traditions stretching back into the most distant and
impenetrable past. No scholar, I learned, could honestly say how
old this moon-god really was, or even make a guess at where and

when his cult began. At the dawn of civilization in Egypt, Thoth
was there. Furthermore, throughout the entire 3,000 or more
years of the dynastic period, he was continuously revered for
certain very specific qualities that he was said to possess and for
his supposed contributions to human welfare. He was, for
example, credited with being the inventor of drawing, of
hieroglyphic writing and

of

architecture,

surveying,

arithmetic,

all

the

-

specifically

geometry,

astronomy,

sciences

medicine and surgery. He was also seen as the most powerful of
sorcerers, endowed with nothing less than complete knowledge
and wisdom. He was exalted as the author of the great and
terrible book of magic that was regarded by the priests at
Hermopolis as the source of their understanding of the occult.
Moreover whole chapters of the famous Book of the Dead were
attributed to him, as well as almost the entire corpus of closely
guarded sacred literature. He was believed, in short, to possess a
virtual monopoly on esoteric learning and was therefore called
‘the mysterious’ and ‘the unknown’. 5
The ancient Egyptians were quite convinced that their first
rulers were gods. Not surprisingly, Thoth was one of these divine
kings: his reign on earth - during which he passed on to mankind
his greatest and most beneficial inventions - was said to have
6
lasted 3,226 years. Before him the Egyptians believed that they

Treasures of Darkness

315

had been ruled by another deity - Osiris, who was also closely
associated with the moon (and with the numbers seven, fourteen
and twenty-eight which relate to physical lunar cycles 7 ).
Although Osiris and Thoth looked quite different from one
another in some of their manifestations, I was able to establish
that they were similar or related in others (in certain archaic texts
8
they were described as brothers ). A number of papyri and
inscriptions went even further and portrayed them as being
effectively the same entity, or at least as performing the same
functions.

They were most commonly

associated

in

the

celestial

Judgment Hall where the souls of the dead came to be weighed in
the Great Scales. Here Osiris - as judge and final arbiter - often
seemed to be the superior of the two gods, while Thoth was a
mere scribe who recorded the verdict. Many of the tableaux from
the Book of the Dead, however, reversed this relationship, as did a
large vignette of the Judgment Scene found amongst the Theban

funerary papyri of the

New Kingdom. This latter document

portrayed Osiris sitting passively to one side while Thoth

determined the verdict, and then recorded and pronounced it. 9
In other words, not only were Thoth and Osiris both gods of the
moon, gods of the dead (and perhaps brothers); both were also
judges and law-makers.
As my research continued I noted such similarities with

my own quest
for the Ark of the Covenant. Then it occurred to me that there

interest, but failed, at first, to see their relevance to

was one invariable link between the two deities which also tied
them conceptually to Moses and to all his works: like him they
were above all else civilizing heroes who bestowed the benefits of
religion, law, social order and prosperity upon their followers.
Thoth, it will be remembered, invented writing and science
and brought these and many other wonders of enlightenment
into the world in order to improve the lot of the Egyptian people.

Likewise, Osiris was universally believed to have played a crucial
role in the evolution and development of Egyptian society. When

he began his rule on earth as divine monarch the country was
barbaric, rude and uncultured and the Egyptians themselves
were cannibals. When he ascended to Heaven, however, he left
behind an advanced and sophisticated nation. His many contri-

316

A Monstrous Instrument

butions included teaching his people to cultivate the soil, to plant

grow vines, to worship the gods, and to
abandon their previously savage customs. He also provided them
grain and barley, to

with a code of laws.

10

Such stories, of course, could have been fabrications. In a
speculative frame of mind, however, I found myself wondering

whether there might not after all have been something more than
pure fancy and legend behind the tradition that Egypt became a
great nation because of the gifts of Thoth and Osiris. Was it not
just

possible,

I

conjectured,

that

the

all-wise,

all-knowing

moon-god could have been a mythical version of the truth - a
metaphor for some real individual or group of individuals who, in
remotest antiquity, brought the benefits of civilization and
science to a primitive land?

The civilizers
might have dismissed this notion out of hand had I not learned
shortly afterwards of the existence of a great mystery - a mystery
to which no definitive solution had ever been proposed. Rather
than developing slowly and painfully, as might have been
expected, it seemed that the civilization of Egypt had emerged all
at once and fully formed. Indeed, by all accounts, the period of
transition from primitive to advanced society had been so short
that it really made no kind of historical sense. Technological
skills that should have taken hundreds or even thousands of
years to evolve had appeared almost literally overnight, and
apparently with no antecedents whatsoever.
For example, remains from the pre-dynastic period dated to
around 3600 bc showed no trace of writing. Then, quite
suddenly and inexplicably, the hieroglyphs familiar from so many
of the ruins of ancient Egypt began to appear and to do so,
furthermore, in a complete and perfect state. Far from being
mere pictures of objects or actions, this written language was
complex and structured, with signs that represented sounds only
and with a detailed system of numerical symbols. Even the very
earliest hieroglyphs were already stylized and conventionalized;
it was also clear that an advanced cursive script had come into
common usage by the dawn of the First Dynasty. 11
I

3

Treasures of Darkness

317

What struck me as remarkable about all this was that there
were absolutely no traces of evolution from simple to more
sophisticated styles. The same was true of mathematics,
medicine, astronomy and architecture, and also of Egypt’s
amazingly rich and convoluted religio-mythological system (even
such refined works as the Book of the Dead existed right at the
start of the dynastic period.

12
)

Unfortunately, there is not space here to present all or even a
tiny part of the data which confirms the sheer suddenness with

emerged. By way of summary,
however, I will quote the authoritative opinion of Professor
Walter Emery, late Edwards Professor of Egyptology at the
University of London:

which Egyptian

civilization

At a period approximately 3,400 years before Christ, a
great change took place in Egypt, and the country passed
rapidly from a state of neolithic culture with a complex
tribal character to [one of] well-organized monarchy
At the same time the art of writing appears,
monumental architecture and the arts and crafts develop
to an astonishing degree, and all the evidence points to
the existence of a luxurious civilization. All this was
.

.

.

achieved within a comparatively short period of time^r
there appears to be little or no background to these

fundamental developments in writing and architecture.

1

One explanation, I realized, could simply have been that Egypt
had received its sudden and tremendous cultural boost from
some other known civilization of the ancient world - Sumer, on
the Lower Euphrates in Mesopotamia, being the most likely
contender. Moreover, despite many basic differences, I was able
to establish that a variety of shared building and architectural
14
did suggest a link between the two regions. None of these
styles
similarities, however, turned out be strong enough to allow me to
infer that the connection had been in any way causal, with one
society directly influencing the

other.

On the contrary, as

Professor Emery put it:

The impression we get is of an indirect connection, and

318

A Monstrous Instrument

perhaps the existence of a third party, whose influence
Modern
spread to both the Euphrates and the Nile
scholars have tended to ignore the possibility of immigration
to both regions from some hypothetical and as yet
undiscovered area. [However], a third party whose cultural
achievements were passed on independently to Egypt and
.

.

.

Mesopotamia would best explain the common features and
fundamental differences between the two civilizations. 15
shed revealing light on the otherwise
mysterious fact that the Egyptians and the Sumerian people of
Mesopotamia worshipped virtually identical lunar deities who
16
were amongst the very oldest in their respective pantheons.
Exactly like Thoth, the Sumerian moon-god Sin was charged
with measuring the passage of time (‘At the month’s beginning to
shine on earth, thou shalt show two horns to mark six days. On
the seventh day divide the crown in two. On the fourteenth day,
17
turn thy full face.’ ) Like Thoth, too, Sin was regarded as being
all-knowing and all-wise. At the end of every month the other
gods of the Sumerian pantheon came to consult him and he made
Neither was I alone in my intuition that
decisions for them.
something more than mere chance might have underpinned
these links between Sin and Thoth. According to the eminent
Egyptologist Sir E. A. Wallis Budge:

This theory,

I

felt,

The similarity between the two

gods is too close to be
accidental ... It would be wrong to say that the Egyptians
borrowed from the Sumerians or the Sumerians from the
Egyptians, but it may be submitted that the literati of
both peoples borrowed their theological systems from
some common but exceedingly ancient source. 19
.

.

.

The question, therefore, was this: what was that ‘common but
exceedingly ancient source’, that ‘hypothetical and as yet undiscovered area’, that advanced ‘third party’ to which both Budge

and Emery referred? Having stuck their necks out a long way
already, I was frustrated to find that neither authority was
prepared to speculate much further. Emery, however, did hint at
where he thought the cradle of Egyptian civilization might have

T reasures of Darkness

319

been located: ‘Vast tracts of the Middle East and the Red Sea and
East African coasts’, he rather coyly observed in this context,
20
‘remain unexplored by the archaeologist.’
I was sure that if Egypt had indeed received the gifts of
civilization and science from elsewhere then some record of this
momentous transaction would have been preserved. The
deification of two great civilizers -Thoth and Osiris - was
evidence of a kind: although presented as theology, the legends
of these gods sounded to my ears much more like the echoes of
long- forgotten events which had actually taken place.

21

But I felt
I needed something more substantial - something which clearly
and indisputably attested to beneficial contacts with an advanced
donor society and which also explained how that society had

managed to disappear without a trace.
I

did find such an account. It was the familiar story of the lost

continent of Atlantis - a story that, in recent years, had been so

thoroughly degraded by outlandish speculations that it had
become a form of professional suicide for any scholar even to

appear to take it seriously (let alone to research it properly). After
peeling away all the New Age nonsense, however, I was struck by
a single significant fact: the earliest-surviving report of Atlantis
had come from the Greek philosopher Plato - one of the
founders of rational western thought- who had insisted that what
22
he had said on the matter was ‘not fiction but true history’.
Furthermore, writing around the beginning of the fourth century
bc, Plato had added that the original source of his story had been
an Egyptian priest - a priest who had spoken of the recurrent
destruction of civilizations by floods and who had said of the
Greeks:

You are all young in mind

.

.

.

you have no knowledge

hoary with age. [But] our traditions here are the oldest
... In our temples we have preserved from earliest times
a written record of any great or splendid achievement or
notable event which has come to our ears whether it
occurred in your part of the world, or here, or anywhere
else; whereas with you, and others, writing and the other
necessities of civilization have only just been developed

when the periodic scourge of the deluge descends and spares
,

320

A Monstrous Instrument

none but the unlettered and uncultured, so that you have to
begin again like children, in complete ignorance of what has
happened in our part of the world or in yours in early times.

Thousands of years before, the priest continued,
There was an island opposite the strait which you call the
Pillars of Hercules, an island larger than Libya and Asia

combined; from it travellers could in those days reach the
other islands, and from them the whole opposite
continent which surrounds what can truly be called the
ocean. On this island of Atlantis had arisen a powerful
Their wealth was
and remarkable dynasty of kings
greater than that possessed by any previous dynasty, or
likely to be accumulated by any later, and they were
provided with everything they could require. Because of
the extent of their power they received many imports, but
for most of their needs the island itself provided. It had
mineral resources from which were mined both solid
materials and metals, including one metal which survives
today only in name, but was then mined in quantities in a
.

.

.

number of localities in the island, orichalc in those days
,

the most valuable metal except gold. There was a
plentiful supply of timber for structural purposes and

every kind of animal domesticated and wild, among them

numerous elephants. For there was plenty of grazing for
this largest and most voracious of beasts, as well as for all
creatures whose habitat is marsh, swamp and river,
mountain or plain. Besides all this, the earth bore freely
of all the aromatic substances it bears today
There
were cultivated crops
There were the fruits of trees
... All these were produced by that sacred island, then
still beneath the sun, in wonderful quality and
.

.

profusion.

.

.

.

.

23

This paradise was not to remain ‘beneath the sun’ for much
longer, however, because soon - to punish its inhabitants for
wrongdoing and an overabundance of materialistic pride - there
came ‘earthquakes and floods of extraordinary violence, and in a

T reasures of Darkness

321

single dreadful day and night the island of Atlantis was swallowed

up by the sea and vanished.’ 24

My interest in this story did not stem from what

it

had to say

about Atlantis itself, nor was I convinced by the suggestion as to
the island’s location ‘opposite the pillars of Hercules’.

My own

25

view - well supported by geophysical evidence - was that there
could never have been such a landmass in the Atlantic Ocean and
that those who persisted in looking for it there were fishing for
the reddest of red herrings.
It did seem to me, however - and the authorities reluctantly
26
concurred on this point - that Plato’s account must have had
some basis in fact. No doubt he introduced many distortions and
exaggerations of his own but he was, nevertheless, recording
something that had actually happened, somewhere in the world,
and a very long time ago. Furthermore - and of the greatest
significance to me - he made it absolutely clear that a memory of
this event had been retained by Egyptian priests and set down in
the ‘priestly writings’.

27

reasoned that if a similar memory had been preserved in
Mesopotamia then the chance of this being pure coincidence was
slight. A far more likely explanation would be that the same
cataclysm - wherever it took place - had inspired the traditions of
both regions. Accordingly I took a second look at the legends in
which I had first noted the similarity between Thoth and the
I

Sumerian moon-god Sin. What I learned did not surprise me:
like their Egyptian contemporaries, the Sumerians had not
only worshipped a wise lunar deity but had also preserved a
record of a flood in ancient times that had destroyed a great,
28
prosperous and powerful society.
As my research progressed, therefore, ‘Atlantis’ did come to
symbolize for me that ‘hypothetical and as yet undiscovered area’
from whence the wonderful civilizations of Egypt and of Sumer
both came. As already noted, I did not believe that the area in
question could possibly have been in or even near the Atlantic.
Instead, I found myself wholeheartedly agreeing with Professor

Emery that it was

have stood at a point roughly
equidistant from both the Nile Delta and the Lower Euphrates likely

to

perhaps in some vanished archipelago similar to the modern
Maldives (which scientists believe will be completely inundated

322

A Monstrous Instrument

within fifty years as a result of rising sea levels linked to global

warming 29 ), or along the vast unexcavated coasts of the Horn of
Africa, or in a flood-prone region of the Indian subcontinent like

modern Bangladesh. Such tropical zones looked all the more
credible when I remembered that Plato had mentioned the
existence of elephants in his ‘Atlantis’ - creatures that, for many
thousands of years, have lived only in Africa, India and SouthEast Asia. 30
The more thought I gave to notions like these the more it
seemed to me that they possessed genuine merit and were worthy
of further investigation. In order to orientate myself in this task I
therefore wrote down the following conjectures and hypotheses
in my notebook:

Suppose that somewhere around the basin of the Indian
Ocean, in the early or middle part of the fourth
millennium bc, a technologically advanced society was
destroyed by flood. Suppose it was a maritime society.
Suppose that there were survivors. And suppose that
some of them sailed in their ships to Egypt and
Mesopotamia, made landfall there and set about the task
of civilizing the primitive inhabitants they encountered.

Most important of all, suppose that in Egypt the
priestly traditions of sacred science - to which Moses was
exposed from his childhood - were the means by which
the skills and know-how of the settlers were deliberately
preserved so that they could be passed down to
subsequent generations. In Egypt these traditions were
associated from the outset with the worship of the
moon-god Thoth (and, in Mesopotamia, with the worship
of Sin). Perhaps this was because the settlers themselves
revered the moon - or perhaps they wittingly and rather
cold-bloodedly encouraged the deification of a prominent
and familiar but yet frightening and ghostly sidereal
object. Their aim, after all, would have been to shape and
direct the simple and savage minds of the peoples they
had found themselves amongst and to create a durable
cult - capable of surviving for millennia - as a vehicle for
all their otherwise fragile and easily forgotten knowledge.

Treasures of Darkness

323

In such circumstances, it is really not difficult to see why

they might have chosen to focus on a glowing and uncanny
lunar god rather than on some more abstract, more
sophisticated but less visible and less corporeal divinity.

At any rate, once the cult of Thoth had been established
in early Egypt, and once its priests had learned and
institutionalized the scientific and technological ‘tricks of
the trade’ brought by the settlers, then it is logical to suppose
that a self-perpetuating process would have begun: the
new-found and valuable knowledge would have been
fenced about with mysteries, protected from outsiders by all
kinds of ritual sanctions and then passed from initiate to
initiate, from generation to generation, in an exclusive and
secret tradition. This knowledge, of course, would have
given its possessors unprecedented mastery over the
physical world - at least by the rudimentary standards of the
native culture prevailing in Egypt before the coming of the
settlers - and would have been expressed in ways that would
have seemed astounding to laymen (not least in the erection
of stupendous and awe-inspiring buildings). It is therefore
easy to understand how the belief that the moon-god had
‘invented’ both science and magic might have taken hold in
the population at large, and why it was that the priests of this
god were regarded as masters of sorcery.

Saved from water
As my research progressed I turned up several pieces of evidence
which seemed to provide strong support for the central
hypotheses listed above, namely that a secret tradition of
knowledge and enlightenment had been ‘carried’ and preserved
within the cult of Thoth - a tradition that had been started in the
most distant past by sophisticated immigrants who had survived a
flood. Highly significant, in this respect, was a very strong theme
- traces of which I found running through almost all the sacred
literature - which repeatedly associated wisdom, and other
qualities of the civilizing hero, with individuals who had been
‘saved from water’.
The first thing I discovered was that Thoth, who had been

324

A Monstrous Instrument

seen by the Egyptians as the source of all their knowledge and
science, had been credited with having caused a flood to punish

humankind for wickedness. 31 In this episode, related in Chapter
CLXXV of the Book of the Deaf he had acted jointly with his
32
Both deities had subsequently ruled on
counterpart Osiris.
earth after the human race had begun to flourish again. I was
therefore excited, when 1 looked more closely at the story of
Osiris, to learn that he had been ‘saved from water’.

The fullest account of the original Egyptian legend was given
by Plutarch 33 and stated that, after improving the condition of his
own subjects, teaching them all manner of useful skills and
providing them with their first legal code, Osiris left Egypt and
travelled about the world in order to bring the benefits of
civilization to other nations as well. He never forced the
barbarians he encountered to accept his laws, preferring instead
to argue with them and to appeal to their reason. It was also
recorded that he passed on his teaching to them by means of
hymns and songs accompanied by musical instruments.
While he was away, however, he was plotted against by
seventy-two members of his court led by his brother-in-law Set.
On Eds return the conspirators invited him to a banquet where a
splendid coffer of wood and gold was offered as a prize to any
guest who could fit into it exactly. What Osiris did not know was
that the coffer had been constructed precisely to his own body
measurements. As a result, when the assembled guests tried one
by one to get into it they failed. The god-king then took his turn
and lay down comfortably inside. Before he had time to get out
the conspirators rushed forward, nailed the lid tightly closed and
sealed even the cracks with molten lead so that there would be no
air to breathe. The coffer was then cast adrift on the Nile where it
floated for some time, eventually coming to rest in the papyrus

swamps of the eastern Delta. 34
At this point Isis, the wife of Osiris, intervened. Using all her
great magic - and assisted by the moon-god Thoth - she went to
look for the coffer, found it, and concealed it in a secret place.

Her evil brother Set, however, out hunting in the marshes,
discovered the location of the coffer, opened it, and in a mad fury
cut the royal corpse into fourteen pieces which he then scattered

throughout the land.

Treasures of Darkness

325

Once more Isis set off to ‘save’ her husband. She made a small
boat of papyrus reeds, coated with bitumen and pitch, and
embarked on the Nile in search of the remains. When she had

found them she called again on the aid of Thoth who helped her
to work certain powerful spells which reunited the dismembered
parts of the body so that it resumed its old form. Thereafter, in an
intact and perfect state, Osiris went through a process of
resurrection to become god of the dead and king of the
underworld - from which place, the legend had it, he occasionally returned to earth in the guise of a mortal man. 35
There were three details of this story that I regarded as being
of the greatest interest: first the fact that, during his rule on earth,
Osiris was a civilizer and a legislator; secondly that he was placed
in a wooden coffer and thrown into the Nile; and thirdly that Isis
came to rescue his body in a papyrus boat coated with bitumen
and pitch. The parallels with the life of Moses could not have
been more obvious - he, too, became a great civilizer and lawgiver, he too was cast adrift upon the waters of the Nile, he too
floated in a vessel of papyrus coated with bitumen and pitch, and
he too was saved by an Egyptian princess. Indeed, as the historian
Josephus recorded, the very name ‘Moses’ meant ‘saved from
water’: ‘for the Egyptians call water mou and those who are saved
eses so they conferred upon him this name compounded of both
36
Philo, the other great classical commentator, conwords.’
curred with this etymology: ‘Since he had been taken up from
water, the princess gave him a name derived from this, and called
him Moses, for Mou is the Egyptian word for water.’ 37
I asked myself whether there might not have been other
instances - in Egypt and perhaps in Mesopotamia as well - of
civilizing heroes who had been saved from water. A search in
ancient annals and legends revealed that there had been many.
For example Horus, the son of Isis and Osiris, was murdered by
Titans and thrown into the Nile. Isis rescued him and revived
him with her sorcery. He then learned from her ‘the arts of physic
38
and divination and used them for the benefit of mankind’.
Likewise, in Mesopotamia, Sargon the Great - whose rule
brought unrivalled wealth, splendour and stability to Sumer and
neighbouring territories at the end of the third millennium bc 39 had claimed quite specifically to have been saved from water:
;

326

A Monstrous Instrument

My mother was a priestess.

I

did not know my father.

The priestess, my mother, conceived me and gave birth to
me in hiding. She placed me in a basket made of reeds
and closed the lid with pitch. She put the basket in the
river which was not high. The river carried me away and
brought me to Akki who was a man responsible for
libations. Akki looked upon me with kindness and drew
me from the river. 40
found that the theme of salvation from water also ran very
strongly through the pages of the Old Testament. The prophet
Jonah, for instance, was thrown into the sea during a raging
tempest, swallowed alive by a giant fish and three days later
‘vomited out upon dry land’ so that he could preach the word of
God to the citizens of Nineveh and divert them from their evil
I

ways.

41

Even more familiar was the much more ancient story of Noah,
who - together with all his family and with ‘two of every sort of
living thing’

42 -

rode out the primeval deluge in a remarkable

survival ship which we know as the ark (‘make it with reeds and

lineut with pitch inside and out’ 43 ). After the flood waters had

Ham and Japheth, heard

receded, Noah’s three sons, Shem,

God’s command to ‘be fruitful and multiply’ and went out to
repopulate the world. 44

By far the most famous and influential biblical figure to be
‘saved from water’, however, was Jesus Christ himself - the only
.

individual, other than Moses, to be described in the Scriptures as

‘mighty in deed and word’ 45 (a phrase which, as I already knew,

implied proficiency in the utterance of magical words of power).

Rather than being an actual rescue, the incident in question was
wholly symbolic and took the form of the mysterious rite of
baptism in the waters of the river Jordan. This, Jesus explained,
was absolutely necessary for salvation ‘Except a man be born of
water ... he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.’ 46
:

And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from
Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.
And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the
heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending

Treasures of Darkness

327

upon him. And there came a voice from heaven saying,

Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. 47
Though I knew that the vast majority of practising Christians
took this passage from the Gospel of Saint Mark entirely at face
value I could not help but wonder whether a deeper layer of

meaning might not have been encoded in the stirring and
beautiful words. It seemed to me at least possible that what was
really being described here was the initiation of Jesus into the
enlightened knowledge of a secret cult whose founders were
literally ‘saved from water’ thousands of years earlier. Furthermore, I thought it not accidental that it was only after this
initiation that Christ began to work his miracles - most of which
(including healing the sick, restoring the dead to life, multiplying
loaves and fishes, and controlling the elements) would have been

High

and sorcerers of
ancient Egypt as ‘magic tricks’ of the type that they, too, had been

instantly recognizable to the

Priests

trained to perform. 48

After considering all the data that I had compiled I made the
following entry in my notebook:

The theme of the civilizer, or founding father, or great
prophet, or legislator, or Messiah who has in one way or
another been ‘saved from water’ occurs in the Scriptures,
and in Egyptian and Middle Eastern mythology, so
frequently and with such consistency that it cannot be a

matter of pure chance. I am not proposing that all the
individuals concerned were actual survivors of that
‘hypothetical and as yet undiscovered area’, that supposed

technologically advanced society which may have been the

cradle for the civilizations of both Mesopotamia and

Egypt. The fact is that only Noah, Osiris - and perhaps

Horus - belong to a period of pre-history sufficiently
remote to qualify them for that distinction. Sargon,
Moses, Jonah, and Jesus, however (together with many
other important figures in different places and at different
periods), were all also saved from water - either literally

or symbolically. It therefore seems to me that what is
really implied by this recurrent image is initiation of the

328

A Monstrous Instrument

individuals concerned into a tradition of secret wisdom
started a very long time ago by the survivors of a flood in an
effort to preserve vital knowledge and skills that might

otherwise have quickly been forgotten.

Going beyond what could be deduced from myths and
legends, I also found some rather more tangible evidence in
Egypt to support the ‘saved from water theory’. I knew that this
evidence - the concealment of complete ocean-going boats
beside almost all the most important tombs of pharaohs and
notables, and also near all the pyramids - had thus far been
treated by archaeologists according to the hoary old dictum that

you can’t understand a particular custom then the safest thing
to do is to put it down to religion’. It gradually dawned on me,
however, that the practice of boat burial could well have been
motivated by something other than a simple desire to install near
‘if

the grave a ‘physical representation of the symbolic craft that

would take the soul or spirit of the dead king to its ultimate
destination in the sky.’ 49

A prime case in point was the cedarwood ship discovered
buried and dismantled in a pit beside the southern edge of the

Great Pyramid at Giza and now reassembled in a special
museum on site. Still in perfect condition 4,500 years after it was
built, I learnt that this giant vessel was more than

142 feet long
and had a displacement of around 40 tons. Its design was
particularly interesting, incorporating (in the informed opinion
of Thor Heyerdahl) ‘all the sea-going ship’s characteristic
properties, with prow and stern soaring upward, higher than in a
Viking ship, to ride out the breakers and high seas, not to contend
with the little ripples of the Nile.’ 50 Another expert felt that the
careful and clever construction of this strange pyramid boat
would have made it ‘a far more seaworthy craft than anything
available to Columbus’; indeed, it would probably have had no
difficulty in sailing round the world!

51

Since the ancient Egyptians were highly skilled at making scale

models and representations of all manner of things for symbolic
purposes 52 it seemed to me implausible that they would have
gone to such trouble to manufacture and then bury a boat as
sophisticated as this one if their only purpose had been to

Treasures of Darkness

329

betoken the spiritual vessel that would carry off the soul of the
king to heaven. That could have been achieved just as effectively
with a much smaller craft. Besides, I learnt that recent research at

Giza had revealed the existence of another huge boat, also on the
south side of the pyramid, still sealed in its pit - and there were
also known to be three (now empty) rock-hewn pits on the
eastern side. As one otherwise orthodox Egyptologist rather
daringly admitted, ‘it is difficult to see why so many boat pits

should have been thought necessary.’ Predictably he then fell
back on the great standby of all puzzled scholars and declared: ‘it
is clear that their presence was required for some religious
purpose relating to the afterlife of the king.’ 53
It was precisely this point, however, which was not clear to

me

at all - particularly since, as noted in the previous chapter, there

was absolutely no indication that any pharaoh was ever interred
within the Great Pyramid. Furthermore, the earliest funerary
boats to be discovered in Egypt dated back to that mysterious
period, just before the inception of the First Dynasty,

when

underwent a
sudden and inexplicable transformation. 54 I therefore found it
civilization

and technology

in the Nile Valley

difficult to resist the conclusion that the curious practice of boat

was more

be linked to the well established
tradition of ‘salvation from water’ than to any purely religious
symbolism. Sturdy ocean-going vessels, I reasoned, would
have been of immense importance to a group of foreigners who
had survived a flood and who had settled in Egypt after sailing
away from the site of the cataclysm. Perhaps they, or those who
came after them, had believed that the buried boats might one
day be needed - not to enable reincarnated souls to navigate the
heavens like celestial pleasure trippers but, instead, to allow
living individuals to escape once again from the scourge of some
burial

likely to

terrible deluge.

Hidden riches of secret places
The really great achievements of ancient Egypt all took place
early. The peak period spanned the Third to the Fifth Dynasties
- roughly from 2900 bc to 2300 bc. Thereafter, albeit gradually
and with some notable resurgences, the general trend was

330

A Monstrous Instrumeqt

steadily downhill. 55

This scenario - accepted by all scholars -

was, I felt, completely consistent with the theory that civilization

was brought into the Nile Valley during the fourth millennium bc
from some technologically advanced but as yet unidentified area.
After all, one would not have expected an imported culture to
produce its most perfect forms of expression from the very
moment that the settlers arrived; there would undoubtedly have
been a great leap forward at that time but the full potential would
not have been realized until the native inhabitants had picked up
and learned the new techniques.
And this was precisely what seemed to have happened in
Egypt. Just before the beginning of the First Dynasty (say around
3400 bc), writing, arithmetic, medicine, astronomy and a
complex religion all appeared very suddenly - without, as already
noted, any local evidence of prior evolution in any of these
spheres. At the same time highly sophisticated monuments and

tombs were being built that incorporated advanced architectural
concepts - again with no trace of evolution. The First and
Second Dynasties (say from 3300 bc onwards) saw the
construction of ever more elaborate monuments which embodied with increasing confidence and vigour the new-found
56
skills and knowledge that had arrived in Egypt.
And this trend
towards greater and greater beauty and excellence received what

many modern scholars regarded as its ultimate expression in the
remarkable stone edifices of the funerary complex of King Zoser,
the first Pharaoh of the Third Dynasty.
The complex, which I visited several times in 1989 and 1990,
is dominated by a towering six-tiered pyramid 197 feet high and
is located to the south of the city of Cairo at Saqqara. The
complete site takes the form of a rectangle nearly 2,000 feet long
and 1,000 feet wide and was originally enclosed by a single
massive stone wall, large sections of which are still standing.
Other features include an extensive colonnade with forty tall
columns, an elegant courtyard, and numerous shrines, temples

and outbuildings - all on a colossal scale but with clean and
delicate lines.

was able to establish that in Egyptian tradition the conception
and design of the entire Zoser complex had been regarded as the
work of a single creative genius - Imhotep the Builder, whose
I

T reasures of Darkness

331

were Sage, Sorcerer, Architect, High Priest,
Astronomer and Doctor. 57 I became interested in this
legendary figure because of the great emphasis put by subsequent generations on his scientific and magical abilities; indeed,
like Osiris, his achievements in these fields were so highly
regarded that he was eventually deified. With uniquely impressive engineering feats such as the Zoser pyramid to his credit,
Imhotep looked to me like an obvious candidate for membership
of the cult of Thoth: the monuments at Saqqara seemed
eloquently to confirm that he had assimilated and then put
other

titles

brilliantly into practice the technological dexterity peculiar to that
cult.

was therefore excited to discover that Imhotep was often
characterized in inscriptions as ‘the image and likeness of
Thoth’ 58 - and also as the ‘successor to Thoth’ after the deity
had ascended to heaven. 59 I then learnt something of even
greater significance: in antiquity, Moses too was frequently
compared to Thoth (indeed, in the second century bc an entire
work was filled with such comparisons by the Judaeo-Greek
I

philosopher Artapanus, who credited the prophet with a range of

remarkable and clearly ‘scientific’ inventions

60
).

The fact that individuals as far apart in history as Moses and
Imhotep should have been explicitly linked through the cult of
the moon-god struck me as strong circumstantial evidence not

only for the existence of a secret wisdom tradition but also for the
durability of that tradition. Accordingly

I

began

to

wonder

whether there had been other magicians and sages like Imhotep
to whom the design of particularly sophisticated and advanced
buildings had been attributed.
Unfortunately, no record survived of the architect who built
the Great Pyramid at Giza. This remarkable edifice was certainly
the crowning achievement of the splendid Fourth Dynasty during which Egyptian civilization reached its zenith. As one
authority put it:

The Pharaohs would never again build to such scale and
perfection. And this level of expertise carried over into
almost every other form of art or craft. Under the Fourth

Dynasty the furniture was the most elegant, the linen the

332

A Monstrous Instrument

finest, the statuary at once the most powerful and the most

perfect

.

.

.

Certain skills, such as the making of inlaid eyes,

reached levels that border on the supernatural. Later
dynasties could produce but mediocre versions and
61
ultimately the knowledge disappeared entirely.
could only agree with most of the above remarks. It seemed to
me, however, that the very special technological skills required
I

for the erection of splendid and imposing monuments had been

preserved
entirely’.

for

a

Though

considerable

period

not

any practical

given

before

‘disappearing

expression,

for

example, there was no doubt that these skills had somehow
survived the many centuries of cultural stagnation that set in after
the Fourth Dynasty and had then reasserted themselves in the

remarkable resurgence that occurred during the Eighteenth and
Nineteenth Dynasties (1580-1200 bc).
The crowning achievement of this latter era, which filled me
with awe every time I set eyes on it, was the beautiful obelisk of
Queen Hatshepsut at Karnak. Nearby, on the western side of the
Nile, the same monarch had also commissioned a massive
mortuary temple that had later come to be regarded as one of the
62
great architectural masterpieces of the world.
I learnt that the name of the long-dead architect responsible
for both of these monuments had been Senmut. Intriguingly, an

inscription that he himself had composed - and that could still be

read on his tomb wall - left little doubt that his special knowledge

and abilities had been acquired after he had been admitted to the
mysteries of an ancient and secret wisdom tradition. ‘Having
penetrated all the writings of the Divine Prophets,’ he boasted, ‘I

was ignorant of nothing that has happened since the beginning of
time.’

63

Suppose [I wrote in my notebook] that Moses (who lived
barely 200 years after Senmut) was also an initiate in this
same secret tradition - a tradition that stretched back
beyond the horizon of history through Imhotep to the
god-kings Thoth and Osiris, and that extended forward
as well to include other great scientists and civilizers like
Jesus Christ. If there is anything at all to this hypothesis

Treasures of Darkness

333

then is it not possible that some of the truly extraordinary
thinkers of more recent years may also have been heirs to

the ‘occult’ knowledge that inspired the builders of the

pyramids and obelisks, and that made it possible for Moses
to perform his miracles?
In seeking to answer this question, I was drawn back first and

foremost to the Knights Templar - who had occupied the
original site of the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem in ad 1 1 19

and who, I believed, had learned something in the Holy City that
had subsequently caused them to seek the Ark of the Covenant in
Ethiopia. As reported in Chapter 5, the research that I had
carried out into the beliefs and behaviour of this strange group of
warrior monks had convinced me that they had tapped into some
exceedingly ancient wisdom tradition - and that the knowledge
they had thus acquired had been put to use in the construction of
churches and castles that were architecturally far in advance of
other buildings of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.

Was it not possible, I now asked myself, that the wisdom
tradition into which the Templars had been initiated had been

which Moses, Senmut and Imhotep had
belonged? And if so then was it not also possible that the knights’
quest for the Ark had been connected to this tradition? I knew
that it would probably prove impossible to substantiate such
esoteric guesswork. Nevertheless, I was excited to discover a
number of ancient Jewish traditions which asserted that the Ark
had contained ‘the root of all knowledge’. 64 In addition, as the
reader will recall, the golden lid of the sacred relic had been
surmounted by two figures of cherubim. Could it therefore have
been pure coincidence that, in Judaic lore, ‘the distinctive gift of
the cherubim was knowledge ’? 6s
These were by no means the only tantalizing hints which
suggested to me that the quest for the Ark might also have been a
quest for wisdom. Equally significant was the fact that when the
Templars were persecuted, tortured and put on trial in the early
fourteenth century many of them confessed to worshipping a
mysterious bearded head, the name of which was given as
66
Baphomet.
Several authorities, pointing to the close connections that the knights had cultivated with Islamic mystics, had
the very one

to

334

A Monstrous Instrument

identified Baphomet with

Muhammad 67 - thus blithely ignoring

the fact that Islam could hardly have inspired such behaviour
(since Muslims, as I was very well aware, regarded their prophet

as human not divine and had an absolute abhorrence of any kind

of idol worship). A far more convincing explanation, however,
was given by Dr Hugh Schonfield, an expert on early
Christianity, who had deciphered a secret code used in a number

of the famous ‘Dead Sea Scrolls’ - a code that the Templars
might easily have learned during their long residence in the Holy

Land. Dr Schonfield showed that if the name Baphomet were
written in this code and then transliterated the result would be
the Greek word Sophia.

68

And the Greek word Sophia, in its

turn, meant nothing more nor less than ‘Wisdom’.

69

By this analysis, therefore, when the Templars worshipped
Baphomet what they were really doing was worshipping the
principle of Wisdom. And that, of course, was exactly what the
ancient Egyptians had done when they had worshipped Thoth as
70
‘the personification of the mind of God’,
as ‘the author of every
work on every branch of knowledge, both human and divine’, 71
and as ‘the inventor of astronomy and astrology, the science of
numbers and mathematics, geometry and land surveying,
medicine and botany’. 72 I was encouraged to look further.
One fact which quite quickly came to light was that the
Freemasons had also held Thoth in special regard. Indeed,
according to a very old Masonic tradition, Thoth ‘had played a
major part in preserving knowledge of the mason craft and
transmitting it to mankind after the flood’. 73 And the author of a
well researched academic study on the origins of Freemasonry went
so far as to say that, in their early days, the Masons had regarded
Thoth as their patron. 74 I was already aware (see Chapter 7) that
close links had existed between the Templars and the Freemasons,
with the latter almost certainly being descended from the former.
Now I could see that what I was coming to think of as the ‘Thoth
connection’ set those links in the ancient and enduring context of a

wisdom tradition stretching back to Pharaonic times. I therefore
asked myself this: in addition to the Templars and the Masons had
there been any other groups or individuals whose works and ideas
had appeared unusually advanced - and who might possibly have
been initiates in the same wisdom tradition?

Treasures of Darkness

335

found that there had been many. For example, Copernicus,
the Renaissance astronomer whose theory of a heliocentric
universe had overturned the earth-centred complacency of the
Middle Ages, had said quite openly that he had arrived at his
revolutionary insights by studying the secret writings of the
ancient Egyptians, including the hidden works of Thoth him75
self.
Likewise the seventeenth-century mathematician Kepler
(who, amongst other things, compiled an imaginary account of a
I

moon) admitted that in formulating his laws of the
planetary orbits he was merely ‘stealing the golden vessels of the
trip to the

Egyptians’.

76

In a similar vein, Sir Isaac Newton had stated his view that ‘the

Egyptians concealed mysteries that were above the capacity of
the common herd under the veil of religious rites and hieroglyphic symbols.’ 77 Amongst these mysteries, he believed, was
the knowledge that the earth orbited the sun and not vice-versa:

was the most ancient opinion that the planets revolved about
the sun, that the earth, as one of the planets, described an annual
course about the sun, while by a diurnal motion it turned on its
78
axis, and that the sun remained at rest.’
Newton’s profound intellect and scholarship had enabled him
to lay the foundations of physics as a modern discipline. His
specific achievements had included epoch-making discoveries in
mechanics, optics, astronomy and mathematics (the binomial
theorem and the differential and integral calculus), huge steps
forward in the understanding of the nature of light, and - above
all else - the formulation of the universal law of gravitation which
had altered forever mankind’s vision of the cosmos.
What was much less well known about the great English
scientist, however, was the fact that he had spent a significant part
of his adult life deeply immersed in hermetic and alchemical
literature (more than a tenth of his personal library had been
taken up with alchemical treatises 79 ). Furthermore he had been
‘It

obsessed - literally obsessed - with the notion that a secret
wisdom lay concealed within the pages of the Scriptures: Daniel
of the Old Testament and John of the New particularly attracted
him because ‘the language of the prophetic writings was symbolic
and hieroglyphical and their comprehension required a radically
different method of interpretation.’

80

336

A Monstrous Instrument

seemed to me, as I researched Newton further, that pursuit
of this method perhaps explained why he had involved himself in
an exacting study of some twenty different versions of the book of
Revelation. He had learned Hebrew in order to do the job
81
and had then carried out a similarly meticulous
properly
82
1 was also able to establish that
exercise on the book of Ezekiel
he had drawn on the information contained in this latter work to
It

.

produce a painstaking reconstruction of the floorplan of the
Temple of Solomon. Why? Because he had been convinced that
the great edifice built to house the Ark of the Covenant had been
a kind of cryptogram of the universe; if he could decipher this
cryptogram, he had believed, then he would know the mind of

God. 83
Newton’s Temple floorplan had been preserved in the Babson
84
College Library. Meanwhile the seventeenth-century scientist
had expressed his other ‘theological’ findings and observations in
85
In
private writings that had totalled well over a million words.
the

mid-twentieth

century

these

rather

surprising

manu-

came to light and were purchased at auction by John
Maynard Keynes. ‘Newton was not the first of the age of reason,’
scripts

the 'obviously shaken economist later told the Royal Society, ‘he

was the last of the magicians, the last of the Babylonians and
Sumerians, the last great mind which looked out on the world
with the same eyes as those who began to build our intellectual
inheritance rather less than ten thousand years ago.’ Keynes
made an extremely careful study of the manuscripts and
concluded - significantly in my view -- that Newton saw
the whole universe and all that is in it as a riddle, as a
secret which could be read by applying pure thought to
certain evidence, certain mystic clues which God had hid

about the world to allow a sort of philosopher’s treasure
hunt to the esoteric brotherhood. He believed that these
clues were to be found partly in the evidence of the

heavens and in the constitution of elements, but also
partly in certain papers and traditions handed down by
the brethren in an unbroken chain back to the original
cryptic revelation.

86

Treasures of Darkness

337

Indeed so! And although I knew that I might never be able to
prove that the ‘brethren’ in question had been directly linked to the
occult traditions of the moon-god Thoth - and to those scientists
and civilizers who had been ‘saved from water’ - 1 felt that there was
at least sufficient evidence to confirm one intriguing fact. In making
his greatest discoveries, Newton had indicated several times that he
had drawn not only upon his own genius but also upon some very
old and secret repository of wisdom. He had once stated quite
explicitly, for instance, that the law of gravitation expounded in his
Principia was not new but rather had been known and fully
understood in ancient times; he had arrived at it by decoding the
87
sacred literature ofipast ages.
On another occasion he had
described Thoth as a believer in the Copemican system.

88

Before

he had aligned himself with the German physician and
alchemist Michael Maier (1568-1622) who had argued that,
throughout history, all the true adepts of science had derived their
knowledge from the Egyptian moon-god. 89
that

Amongst many other curiosities, I discovered that Newton had
been struck by the fact that ‘there was a general tradition of
deluge amongst ancient peoples’ 90 and had shown considerable
interest in the biblical view that Noah was the common ancestor
91
Moreover, despite his own devoutly held
of all humanity.
religious convictions, he seemed at times to have seen Christ as
an especially gifted man and as an interpreter of God’s master92
What I found most
plan, rather than as the Son of God.
fascinating of all, however, was that the really pivotal figure in
Newton’s theology, and in his conception of early science, had
been none other than the prophet Moses, whom he had regarded
as an adept in the mysteries of the universe, a master of alchemy,

and a witness to the double revelation of God (as expressed in
His word and in His works). 93
Long centuries before our own enlightened era, Newton had
believed, Moses understood that matter consisted of atoms, and
that these atoms were hard, solid and immutable: ‘gravity accrued
to both atoms and to the bodies they composed; gravity was
proportional to the quantity of matter in every body.’ 94 Newton

had also regarded the account of creation presented in Genesis
- and attributed to Moses - as an allegorical description of an
alchemical process:

33«

A Monstrous Instrument

Moses, that ancient Theologue, describing and
expressing ye most wonderful Architecture of this great
world, tells us that ye spirit of God moved upon ye waters

which was an indigested chaos, or mass created before by
God.
Later, referring to the efforts of the alchemists, the great English
scientist had added:

Just as the world was created from dark chaos through
the bringing forth of the light and through the separation

of the aery firmament and of the waters from the earth, so
our work brings forth the beginning out of black chaos

and its first matter through the separation of the elements
and the illumination of matter. 95
Last but not least, I thought it was not accidental that Newton’s
96
favourite biblical passage had been one that had hinted at the
existence of some form of covert knowledge available only to
initiates:

And I will give thee the treasures of darkness, and hidden
riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I, the

Lord, which call thee by thy name, am the God of
Israel. 97

reasoned that if Newton had indeed had access to the same
‘treasures of darkness’ and to the same ‘hidden riches’ as Moses,
then this would imply - at the very least - the continuous
existence over a period of millennia of a clandestine sect or cult
structured to pass on an exclusive and privileged wisdom. This
sounded far-fetched; it was, however, by no means impossible.
I

On the contrary, knowledge and skills had frequently and
successfully been transferred down the generations - and from

one region of the world

to

another - without any concrete

evidence being available to document the process. For example,

Rhabdas, a mathematician who had lived in the city of Constantinople in the twelfth century ad, was known to have used a
method for deriving square roots that had existed only in ancient

Treasures of Darkness

339

Egypt more than two thousand years previously and that had not,
98
otherwise, been employed elsewhere.
How, and from where,
he had acquired this technique was not easy to explain. Similarly,
I was very much
aware that the transmission of esoteric
information, coupled with the teaching and sharing of arcane
rituals and ceremonies, had occurred for centuries within the
various Masonic orders without any public record ever being
available.

Charting the contours of a genuinely reticent sect was,
therefore, a daunting undertaking. But what I found more
daunting by far was the task of guessing the real nature of the
science and technology that such a long-lived and secretive
institution as the cult of Thoth might have protected and
preserved - particularly if, as I suspected, that science and
technology had originated in a historically remote and now
utterly obliterated culture. As I wrote in my notebook:

would be a mistake to assume that our own twentiethcentury machinery and inventions are any guideline; on
the contrary, if an advanced society did exist at some
archaic period, then its wisdom is likely to have been
quite different from anything with which we are familiar,
and its machines could reasonably be expected to have
It

operated according to principles unknown to us.

A monstrous instrument
was with such thoughts, as my research moved on, that I found
myself drawn to the strange passages in the Old Testament books
of Exodus and Deuteronomy which described the encounters
between God and Moses on Mount Sinai. Amidst thunder and
fire, electrical storms and clouds of smoke, Yahweh supposedly
disclosed the blueprint of the Ark of the Covenant to the Hebrew
magus and presented him with the stone Tablets of the Law
inscribed with the Ten Commandments. Then the Ark itself was
built by the artificer Bezaleel who slavishly followed the ‘divine’
plan, almost as though he knew that he was forging some
monstrous instrument.
And this, I suspect, is what the Ark really was: a monstrous
It

340

A Monstrous Instrument

instrument capable of releasing fearful energies in an un-

manner if it was mishandled or
misused in any way - an instrument that was not conceived in the
mind of God, as the Bible teaches, but rather in the mind of
controlled and catastrophic

Moses.

A master sorcerer in an era when sorcery and science were
indistinguishable from one another, it is after all possible (and

perhaps more than possible) that Moses could have had the
technical knowledge - and therefore the ability - to design a
device of this sort. There is absolutely no proof of this, of course.
Nevertheless I think that only those with a pedantic and cavilling
attitude to history would insist that the ancient wisdom traditions

of Egypt could have contained no special skills or ideas of a
technical nature on which the prophet might have drawn in order
to imbue the Ark with the awesome powers attributed to it in the

Old Testament.
Speculation on such matters is surely healthy and - for those
readers who are interested in penetrating more deeply into the
mystery - I offer the following hypotheses and conjectures as
food for thought.

Motive and opportunity

Assume for a moment that Moses did indeed have the technical
knowledge to create ‘a monstrous instrument’ capable of destroying city walls (as in the case ofJericho"), striking people dead (as
100
in the case of Uzzah and the ‘men of Bethshemesh’
), inflicting
cancerous tumours on those who approached it without proper
protection (as in the case of the Philistines after the battle of

Ebenezer

101

and counteracting gravity (as in the case of the
bearers whom, on one occasion, it ‘tossed into the air and flung to
102
the ground again and again’
).
If Moses could have made such a machine then it only remains
to ask whether he had a motive to do so, and whether he had the
),

opportunity.

would like to suggest that he had ample motive. One in a long
line of civilizing heroes who had been ‘saved from water’, there is
evidence to suggest that his prime objective in life might not have
been to establish the Jewish faith (although he certainly did that)
I

T reasures of Darkness

341

but rather to civilize the Israelites - who, prior to the Exodus,
were little more than an anarchic tribe of migrant labourers

marooned in Egypt.
Suppose that the prophet decided

to

inspire

(and thus

mobilize) this primitive and almost ungovernable group of

nomads by convincing them that he was going to lead them to
the ‘Promised Land’ - Canaan - which he had enticingly
depicted as ‘a good land and a large ... a land flowing with milk

and honey’. 103 If so then he was far too wily a leader, and far too
astute a judge of human frailty, to take what was basically a
disorganized rabble straight there. He knew that they would face
formidable foes when they eventually arrived; if they were to
overcome these foes, therefore, he would first need to mould and
shape them, bend them to his will, and impose some discipline
upon them.
This reasoning appeals to me because it seems to offer a
logical explanation for something that otherwise makes very little
sense - namely the fact that the Israelites supposedly spent forty
years wandering in the inhospitable wildernesses of the Sinai
104
peninsula.
There were, at the time, at least two well known
and much-frequented trade routes which normally enabled
travellers to cross the deserts between Egypt and Canaan in just a
105
It seems to me, therefore, that Moses’s decision not
few days.
to use these highways (and instead to inflict a lengthy period of

hardship on his people) could only have been a deliberate and
calculated strategy: he must have seen this as the best way to get

the Israelites into shape for the conquest of the Promised

Land.

106

Such a strategy, however, would also have had its drawbacks notably the problem of persuading the tribesmen to stick together in
the desert and to put up with all the difficulties and austerities of

nomadic life. This problem was truly a knotty one: the biblical
account of the wanderings in the wilderness makes it painfully clear
that Moses had a hard time trying to keep his people’s confidence
and to force them to obey him. It was true that they fell briefly into
line whenever he worked some new miracle (and he was obliged to
work many); on other occasions, however - and particularly when
they faced adversity - they seethed with discontent, criticized him
107
bitterly and sometimes rebelled openly against him.

342

A Monstrous Instrument

In such circumstances, is it not reasonable to suppose that the

prophet might have seen the need to equip himself with some
sort of portable ‘miracle machine’ to enthral and impress the
Israelites whenever and wherever a bit of ‘magic’ was required?

And wasn’t that exactly what the Ark was - a portable miracle
machine which Moses used to ensure that the people would obey
him no matter how difficult the circumstances?
Examples of the sacred object being used in precisely this
manner are not hard to find in the Bible. Indeed a dramatic
change appears to have taken place in Moses’s behaviour after
the building of the Ark. Previously he had responded to the
incessant demands and complaints of the Israelites with relatively
minor acts of wizardry - striking a desert rock with his wand in
108
extracting
order to make fresh water gush forth from it,
109
delivering food in the
potable water from a stagnant pool,
110
and so on and so forth. Later,
form of manna and quails,
however, the prophet did not bother with conjuring tricks like
these. Instead, whenever the people grumbled, rebelled against
him, or dared to dispute his leadership in any way he simply
turned the Ark on them - with predictably dreadful results.
On one fairly typical occasion he used it to inflict a disfiguring
skin condition on his sister Miriam because she had questioned
his authority.

111

The Bible calls this skin condition ‘leprosy’. 112

When Miriam had been suitably chastened, however, her sores
vanished. Since they had appeared in the first place immediately
after

she had been exposed to the mysterious cloud that

sometimes issued forth from between the two cherubim
mounted on the Ark’s lid, it is most unlikely that they were
113
actually caused by leprosy.
Might they not rather have been
induced by some chemical or other contaminant released from
the Ark itself?
Miriam was not the only person to have been affected in this
way after incurring Moses’s wrath. Moreover other dissidents
not lucky enough to be members of the priestly family tended to
be punished with even greater severity. A particularly interesting
series of events occurred in response to a mutiny in which the
ascendancy of Moses and Aaron was openly questioned:

Two hundred and fifty of the sons of Israel joined forces

Treasures of Darkness

343

against Moses and Aaron saying, You take too much on

yourselves! The whole community and all its members are

consecrated, and Yahweh lives among them, Why set
yourselves higher than the community of Yahweh?

1

14

Moses was at first so shocked by this insubordination that he Tell
upon his face’. 115 He quickly recovered, however, and proposed
the following ‘test’: to find out whether the two hundred and fifty
rebels were really as ‘holy’ as he was, he suggested that they

should each fill a bronze censer with incense and that they should
116

then come in before the Ark to burn this incense.
If this was
done, he argued, it would allow Yahweh to ‘choose the one who is
117
the consecrated man’.
The challenge was accepted: ‘And they took every man his
censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense thereon, and stood
at the door of the Tabernacle

.

.

.

with Moses and Aaron.’

1

18

No

sooner had this gathering taken place than ‘the glory of Yahweh
119
Then the deity supposedly gave his ‘favourites’ a
appeared’.
three -second warning of what he was about to do: ‘Yahweh spoke
to Moses and Aaron. He said, “Stand apart from this assembly, I
am going to destroy them here and now.” 120 At this, the prophet
and the High Priest ‘threw themselves face downward on the
And there came out a fire [from the Ark] and
ground
consumed the two hundred and fifty men that offered
’

.

incense.’

.

.

121

Afterwards,
the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold,

we die, we perish, we all perish

Whosoever cometh
anything near unto the tabernacle of the Lord shall die:
122
shall we be consumed with dying?
.

.

.

They had, it seemed, learned a salutary lesson. Subdued by the
powers of the Ark, they mounted no further rebellions of any
significance. On the contrary, apart from a few low-key gripes
and murmurs, they fell very much into line behind Moses and did
exactly what he told them to do during the remainder of their
sojourn in the wilderness.

So much, then, for motive. Moses clearly had great need of a

344

A Monstrous Instrument

portable miracle machine exactly like the Ark. Moreover, once he

had equipped himself with that machine - if machine it indeed
was - he showed no hesitation in using it.
Motive and ability alone, however, do not add up to a coherent
case. The next question, therefore, is this: did he have the
opportunity to prepare a proper blueprint for the Ark and to
fabricate some sort of ‘power-pack’ for it - some sort of energy

source by means of which it might be activated?

The answer is yes - ample opportunity. To understand why it
is

worth recalling the main events of Moses’s life, in the order

that they occurred:

He was born in Egypt.
2 He was cast adrift on the Nile in a basket made of
1

papyrus reeds coated with bitumen and pitch.
3 He was ‘saved from water’ by the daughter of Pharaoh.
4 He was reared in the royal household where he learned
‘all the wisdom of the Egyptians’ - and became an
123
adept in sorcery, and almost certainly a High Priest.
124
according to the Bible, he heard
5 -At the age of forty,
that his own native people - the Israelites - were being
oppressed by the Egyptians. Accordingly he left the
court and went to find out what was happening to
them. He discovered that they were living a life of
bondage, forced to do hard labour day and night.
Incensed at this cruel treatment, and at the arrogance
of the Egyptians, he lost his temper, killed an overseer
and then fled into exile. 125
126
- i.e. forty years later - he
6 At the age of eighty
returned from exile to lead the Israelites out of their
captivity.

What happened during the missing forty years? The Bible is
singularly unhelpful in answering this question, devoting just

eleven verses to direct discussion of the entire period.

127

It does,

however, make one thing abundantly clear: in all this great
expanse of time the key event was Moses’s encounter with

Yahweh at the burning bush - an encounter that took place at the

Treasures of Darkness
foot of Mount Sinai where,

345

some time later, the Ark of the

Covenant was to be built.
Long before Moses persuaded the Israelites to follow him
across the Red Sea, is it not therefore probable that he had
thoroughly familiarized himself with the fearsome wildernesses
of the Sinai peninsula? The location of the burning bush incident
leaves no room for doubt that he spent at least part of his forty-

year exile in these remote and mountainous deserts. Indeed, it is

even possible that he passed most or all of this period there - a
view for which there is a degree of academic support. According
to one learned Egyptologist, Moses could have spent as long as a
quarter of a century in Sinai, living in a settlement on a mountain
known as Serabit-el-Khadem barely fifty miles from Mount
Sinai itself.

128

In June 1989 I visited and climbed Serabit-el-Khadem, which

stands in the austere and barren highlands of southern-central
Sinai.

On the flat top of the mountain, completely innocent of

tourists, were the ruins

of the settlement in which Moses was

thought to have lived - ruins dominated by the obelisks, altars
and graceful columns of what must once have been an extensive
Egyptian temple. As a High Priest of the ancient Egyptian
religion, I reasoned, Moses would have felt comfortable here and if he had indeed fled the wrath of Pharaoh after killing an
overseer as the Bible claimed, then he would have been relatively
safe in this remote and obscure spot.
I decided to find out more about Serabit-el-Khadem and
researched it in some depth after my initial visit. In the course of
this work, two significant facts came to light.
First, I learned that the temple site which I had seen had been
thoroughly investigated in 1904-5 by the great British
archaeologist Sir William Flinders Petrie - and that he had
129
These
unearthed fragments of several stone tablets there.
tablets were inscribed with writing in a strange pictographic
alphabet that, much later, was proved to have belonged to a
130

Semitic-Canaanite language related to ancient Hebrew.
Second, I discovered that the settlement at Serabit-elKhadem had been an important centre for the mining and
manufacture of copper and turquoise from roughly 1990 bc
131
until 1190 bc
These dates meant that there was no
.

346

A Monstrous Instrument

anachronism in the assumption that Moses might have sojourned
here in the thirteenth century bc, just prior to the Exodus. And
the evidence that an alphabet related to Hebrew had been in use
on the site at about the same time looked like further corroboration of this view. What really interested me, however, was the
point emphasized above, namely that Serabit had functioned as a
sort of industrial and metallurgical complex and that the whole
area had been extensively mined. It seemed to me that if Moses
had indeed lived here for a lengthy period then he could hardly
have failed to acquire knowledge of the minerals and metal ores
of southern Sinai.
After my visit to Serabit-el-Khadem in June 1989 I drove my
hired Jeep the fifty miles across the desert to Mount Sinai. In a

sense the word ‘desert’ is a misnomer for this region, for although
there are sandy expanses, the bulk of the countryside consists of
steep and withered mountain ranges, red in colour, upon which

almost nothing grows. The only patches of greenery are created

by occasional oases in the valleys, and one such oasis, rich in date
palms, stands at the foot of Mount Sinai. Here, in the fourth
century ad, a small Christian chapel was erected on the
supposed site of the burning bush. That chapel was greatly
extended in subsequent years. By the fifth century it had become
a substantial monastery under the patronage of the Coptic

Church of Alexandria. In the sixth century the Roman Emperor
Justinian massively fortified the monastery’s walls so that it could
better withstand the attacks of marauding bedouin tribes. Finally,

whole complex was dedicated to
continues to be known as ‘Saint

in the eleventh century, the

Saint

Catherine.

132
It

Catherine’s’ today, and many of the structures built in the fifth

and sixth centuries still stand.
Before embarking on the arduous 7,450-foot climb to the top
of Mount Sinai I spent some time inside the ancient monastery.

The main church contained several remarkable icons, mosaics
and paintings, some of them almost 1,500 years old. In the
gardens was a walled enclosure built around a large raspberry
bush that was believed by the monks to be the original burning
bush. 133 This it certainly was not - and, indeed, I was well aware
that even Mount Sinai’s claim to be the ‘Mount Sinai’ referred to
in the Bible had by no means been conclusively proved. The fact

?

Treasures of Darkness

347

was, however, that monastic traditions dating back at least to the
fourth century ad had associated this particular peak with the

‘mountain of God,’ and had almost certainly done so on the basis
of reliable sources of information now lost. 134 Moreover I knew
that local tribal traditions concurred: the bedouin name for
Mount Sinai was simply jfebel Musa - ‘the mountain of
Moses’. 135 Scholarly opinion also associated the biblical Mount
Sinai with the peak bearing that name today - and the few
dissenting voices did not favour a different region but rather other
136
nearby peaks in the same range (for example Jebel Serbal).
I must confess that after climbing Mount Sinai in June 1989 I
was left in no doubt that this had indeed been the mountain to
which Moses had brought the Israelites ‘in the third month’ after
leaving Egypt. Pausing at the summit, I stood on a ledge which
overlooked tumbled miles of worn and jagged uplands descending to sere plains in the far distance. There was a haze and a
powder-blue stillness in the air - not silence, exactly, but
stillness. Then a sudden wind whipped up, cool and dry at that
altitude, and I watched an eagle soar heavenwards on a thermal,
gliding briefly level with me before it disappeared from sight. I
remained there alone for a while, in that pitiless and uncompromising place, and I remember thinking that Moses could
hardly have chosen a more dramatic or a more appropriate
location in which to receive the Ten Commandments from the
hand of God.

But is that really what the Hebrew magus came to Mount Sinai
to do? It seems to me that there is an alternative scenario. Could it
not be that his true purpose all along had been to build the Ark of
the Covenant and to place inside it some great energy source the raw
substance of which he had known that he would be able to find on this
,

particular mountain top

This is a highly speculative thesis - but it is speculation that we
are indulging in here and there is room for a little imaginative
licence. If Moses had known of the existence of some potent
substance on the peak of Mount Sinai, then what might that
substance have been?
One suggestion - put forward in a different context in Chapter
- is that the tablets of stone on which God supposedly wrote the
3
Ten Commandments were in fact two pieces of a meteorite.

34«

A Monstrous Instrument

Resonant with echoes of Wolfram’s Grail Stone (described as
having been brought down from heaven by a troop of angels 137 ),
this intriguing possibility is taken seriously by several top-flight
biblical scholars, who point to the worship of meteoric fragments
138
and add that:
in a number of ancient Semitic cultures
concealing tables of law within a closed container [seems]

somewhat odd
Words of law engraved upon stone
were surely meant to be publicly displayed ... [it may
therefore be] supposed that the Ark held not two tables of
.

.

.

the law but a fetish stone, a meteorite from Mount
Sinai

139
.

If this conjecture is correct then the field lies open to guess

what element exactly the 'meteorite from Mount Sinai’ might
have consisted of. It is at any rate not beyond the bounds of
reason to suppose that it might have been radioactive, or that it
might have possessed some chemical characteristic that would
have made it useful to Moses if his purpose had really been to
manufacture a potent and durable source of energy for installation-in the Ark.

The notion that he might have been manufacturing something
on Mount Sinai is certainly not ruled out by the Scriptures. On
the contrary, many passages in the relevant chapters of the book
of Exodus are sufficiently peculiar and puzzling to allow just such

an interpretation to be put on them.

The so-called ‘theophany’ - the manifestation of a deity to a
mortal man - began immediately after the Israelites had 'camped
before the mount’. Then ‘Moses went up unto God, and the
Lord called unto him out of the mountain 140
At this early stage the Bible makes no mention of smoke or
.’

fire

or any of the other special effects that were soon to be

brought into play. Instead the prophet simply climbed the
mountain and held a private conversation with Yahweh, a
conversation that was not witnessed by anyone else. Significantly, one of the first instructions that he supposedly received
from the deity was this:

Thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about,

Treasures of Darkness

349

saying, Take heed to yourselves that ye go not up into the

mount, or touch the border of it: Whoever touches the
mountain will be put to death
He must be stoned or shot
down by arrow. he must not remain alive. 141
.

.

.

.

.

It goes almost without saying that

Moses would have had a strong

reason to impose just such a rigorous and ‘divinely ordained’
exclusion zone if he had indeed been planning to manufacture or

process some substance on Mount Sinai: the prospect of being

stoned or shot would certainly have deterred the curious from
venturing up to see what he was really doing there and thus would

have enabled him to preserve the illusion that he was meeting
with God.
At any rate, it was only after he had spent three days on the
mountain that the drama really began. Then:
In the morning

.

.

.

there were thunders and lightnings,

and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the
trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that was in
And mount Sinai was altogether
the camp trembled
on a smoke, because Yahweh had descended on it in the
form of fire. Like smoke from a furnace the smoke went
142
up
.

.

.

.

Initially it seems that Moses spent only part of his time isolated on

the peak, and that he was frequently in the camp. Soon, however,

God told him this:

Come up to me on the mountain and stay there while I
give you the stone tablets - the law and the

commandments - which I have written 143
.

This, then, was the prelude to what was to be the key event on
Sinai - Moses’s acquisition of the two tablets of stone that he

would later place inside the Ark of the Covenant. The prophet’s
ascent was accompanied by further special effects:

Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the

350

A Monstrous Instrument

mount. And the glory of Yahweh settled upon mount Sinai;
for six days the cloud covered it, and on the seventh day
Yahweh called to Moses from inside the cloud. To the eyes
of the sons of Israel the glory of Yahweh seemed like a

devouring fire on the mountain top. Moses went right into
the cloud. He went up the mountain and stayed there for
forty days and forty nights.

1

44

Would an omnipotent God have required forty days and forty
nights to deliver two stone tablets to His prophet? Such a lengthy

period seems hardly necessary. If, however, Moses had not been
receiving 'the tablets of the Testimony’ at all, but instead had

been manufacturing or refining some compact stone-like
energy source to place inside the Ark, then he could well have
needed that much time to finish the work.

From this perspective, the ‘devouring fire’ on the mountain
top that the Israelites had interpreted as ‘the glory of Yahweh’

would really have been the infernal glow given off by whatever
devices or chemical processes the prophet was using to achieve
his objective. And although this hypothesis sounds far-fetched, it
is surely not more so than the strange information concerning the
tablets of stone that is contained in the Old Testament, in the
Mishnah, in the Midrash, in the Talmud, and in the most archaic
Jewish legends.

Tablets of stone?

The clearest descriptions of the tablets are contained in the
Talmudic-Midrashic sources which yield the following information: (i) they were ‘made of a sapphire-like stone’; (2) they were
‘not more than six hands in length and as much in width’ but were
nevertheless enormously heavy; (3) though hard they were also
145
flexible; (4) they were transparent.
It was upon these peculiar objects that the Ten Commandments
were supposedly written - by no lesser figure than Yahweh
Himself, as the Bible is at pains to point out:

When He had finished speaking with Moses on the
mountain of Sinai, He gave him the two tablets of the

Treasures of Darkness

351

Testimony, tablets of stone, inscribed by the finger of God
And Moses turned and went down from the mount with
the two tablets of the Testimony in his hands, tablets
inscribed on both sides, inscribed on the front and on the
back. These tablets were the work of God, and the writing
46
on them was God’s writing.
.

.

.

1

Theologically, therefore, there can be no doubting the sanctity or
the significance of the prophet’s burden: written upon by the very
finger of God, the two tablets were quite literally fragments of the
divine. From the biblical viewpoint nothing more precious had

ever been entrusted to mortal man. One would have thought that

Moses would have looked after them. He did not do so, however.
Instead, in a fit of pique, he broke these pure and perfect gifts.

Why did he do this incomprehensible thing? According to the
explanation given in Exodus

was because the perfidious
Israelites had lost hope that he would ever return after his forty
days on the mountain and had fashioned a golden calf, which they
were worshipping. Arriving in the camp Moses then caught them
in flagrante delicto offering sacrifices and dancing and prostrating
themselves before the idol. At the sight of this grotesque apostasy
the prophet’s ‘anger waxed hot and he threw down the tablets
that he was holding and broke them at the foot of the
mountain.’ 147 He then disposed of the golden calf, had about
three thousand of the worst idolators executed, and restored
order.

it

148

So much, then, for the official account of how and why the
original tablets of stone came to be broken. These items,
however, were clearly of vital importance and had to be replaced.
Accordingly God instructed Moses to return to the mountain top
to receive two new tablets. The prophet complied and ‘stayed
and he
there with Yahweh forty days and forty nights
inscribed on the tablets the words of the Covenant, the Ten
Commandments.’ 149 Moses then climbed down the mountain
.

.

.

again bearing the tablets, exactly as he had done before. A close

study of the relevant biblical passages, however, does reveal a

and significant difference between his two
150
descents: on the second occasion ‘the skin of his face shone’;
on the first there had been no mention of this odd phenomenon.
single substantive

352

A Monstrous Instrument

What could have caused the prophet’s face to shine? The
biblical scribes naturally assumed that it had been his proximity

God, and explained: ‘the skin on his face was radiant after
151
Yet on several previous occasions,
speaking with Yahweh.’
dating back as far as the burning bush, Moses had stood close to
Yahweh and had not suffered any such consequences. Indeed, a
typical example had occurred just before he had embarked on his
second forty-day expedition to Sinai. While still in the Israelite
camp he had participated in a lengthy and intimate encounter
with the deity, an encounter that had been held in a specially
152
There ‘the
sanctified structure called the ‘Tent of Meeting’.
Lord spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his
153
friend,’
but there was no hint or suggestion that the prophet’s
skin had glowed as a result.
So what could have produced this effect? Is it not reasonable to
suggest that it might have been the tablets of stone themselves?
to

Oblique corroboration for precisely this suggestion exists in the
Talmudic and Midrashic sources which insist that the tablets had
been infused with ‘Divine radiance’. When God handed them to
Moses: ‘He seized them by the top third, whereas Moses took
hold of the bottom third, but one third remained open, and it was
in this way that the Divine radiance was shed upon Moses’
face.’

154

Since this did not happen with the first set of tablets - the ones
that Moses broke - it is legitimate to ask a question: why were

things so different the second time around? Could the answer

possibly be that Moses had discovered that the first set of tablets

were technically imperfect as an energy source precisely because
they didn V burn his face? This would explain why he broke them.
He did, however, sustain burns from the second set. Perhaps this
proved to him that whatever process he had used to manufacture
them had worked - and made him confident that they would
function properly when they were placed inside the Ark.
The idea that the glow or shine on Moses’s skin might in fact
have been caused by some sort of burn is of course purely
speculative. There is no support for it in the Bible. Nevertheless,
it seems to me to be a perfectly reasonable deduction - as
reasonable as any other - from the small amount of evidence that
is available there. The description of the prophet’s descent from

Treasures of Darkness

353

the mountain with the second set of tablets is limited to just seven

verses in Chapter 34 of Exodus. 155 These verses, however, make
it absolutely clear that his

appearance was so gruesome when he

arrived in the camp that all the Israelites were ‘afraid to come

nigh him’.

156

To spare their feelings ‘he put a veil over his face’ 157

- and ever afterwards, except when he was alone in his tent, he
wore this veil. 158
Does this not sound much less like the behaviour of a man who
had been touched by the radiance of God than of a man burned and burned badly - by some potent energy source?

A testament to lost truths
would be possible to speculate endlessly about the true
character of the Ark of the Covenant - and of its contents. I have
gone as far as I wish to down this particular road. Readers who
would like to go further, however, might find it interesting to
consider first the materials from which the Ark was made. Huge
quantities of gold seem to have been used - and gold, as well as
being beautiful and noble, is also chemically non-reactive and
exceptionally dense. In particular the ‘mercy seat’ - which served
as the lid of the relic - was believed by one learned rabbi (who
lived in the twelfth century ad) to have been a full hand-breadth
159
thick.
Since a hand-breadth was traditionally measured from
It

the tip of the thumb to the extended tip of the little finger, this

means that the Ark was closed with a hulking slab of solid gold
nine inches deep.

precious metal?

160

Why was it necessary to use so much of the

And was it an accident that Rabbi Shelomo

Yitshaki who procured this information - as well as a great deal of

other intelligence concerning the sacred relic - was born and

spent most of his life in the city of Troyes in the heart of France’s

Champagne region? 161 That same city was the home of Chretien
de Troyes whose work on the Holy Grail, written seventy-five
years after the rabbi’s death, established the genre in which
Wolfram von Eschenbach was soon to follow. And it was in
Troyes as well that the rule of the Knights Templar was drawn up
by Saint Bernard of Clairvaux. In this way the mysteries and the
connections multiply.

Those who are curious might also wish to give some thought to

354

A Monstrous Instrument

the peculiar garments that the High Priests of ancient Israel wore

when they approached the Ark

1

62

'

.

If they did

not wear these
163

Was this
garments their lives were believed to be at risk
purely a matter of superstition and ritual? Or was protective
clothing necessary for some reason that perhaps had to do with
the nature of the Ark itself?
Related to this point is another - the curious coverings,
consisting of two layers of cloth and one of leather, that the Ark
164
had to be wrapped in before it could be transported
(apparently in order to prevent anyone from being killed as a
165
result of accidentally touching it whilst it was on the move
).
Even when these precautions had been fully complied with,
however, the sacred relic still sometimes caused the death of its
166
bearers. It did so with 'sparks ’.
But what were these sparks?
And were the wrappings - which were all made of non167
- perhaps intended to serve as insulaconductive materials
.

tion ?

168

Also of some potential interest is the story of Nadab and

Abihu, the two sons of Aaron who were struck down by the Ark
soon after its installation in the Tabernacle (I have described this
incident briefly in Chapter 12; according to the Scriptures a
169
flame leapt out at them 'and devoured them and they died’
).
Surprisingly, Moses completely ignored the normally lengthy
Hebrew funeral procedures and instead ordered that the bodies
170
should immediately be taken 'far away’ out of the camp.
Why
should he have done such a thing? What was it exactly that he
feared?

Moving forward in time, I suggest that those who wish to learn
more could do worse than examine the passages in the Bible
which recount the dreadful afflictions that the Ark worked
amongst the Philistines during the seven months that it spent in
their hands after they had captured it at the battle of
Ebenezer 171 Again, I have described these events in Chapter
.

12, but I have also left much unsaid that could be said.

Many riddles, too, might be solved by a close study of what
happened in the years after the Ark was returned to the Israelites
by the Philistines and before King Solomon finally installed it in
the Holy of Holies of his Temple in Jerusalem. I believe that an
explanation exists for the miracles and the terrors that it worked

Treasures of Darkness

during this period
character as a

172

355

- a rational explanation connected to its

man-made

device and not to any divine or

unearthly influences.

Indeed, my own investigations have led me to conclude that it

may only be possible to understand the sacred relic properly when
seen in this light - not as a repository of supernatural powers
but as an artefact and as an instrument. No doubt this instrument
it is

was very different from any known to us today, but it was none the
less the product of human ingenuity, devised by human hands to
fulfil very human objectives. As such its magic and its mystery are
not diminished for me. The gift of an ancient and secret science,
I think of it as a key to the sealed and unremembered history of
our species, a sign of our forgotten glory, and a testament to lost
truths about ourselves.

And what else is the quest for the Ark or the Grail if it is not a
quest for knowledge, a quest for wisdom and a quest for

enlightenment?

V

'

Part V: Israel and Egypt, 1990

Where is the Glorv?

Chapter 14

The Glory is departed from
Israel

In the mid-afternoon of Thursday 4 October 1990 I entered the
old walled city ofJerusalem through the Jaffa Gate. After passing

Omar Ibn el-Khatab Square, with its pleasant cafes and hawkers’
stands, a bewildering maze of narrow streets paved with ancient

cobble stones lay ahead of me.

A few years earlier this whole area would have been seething
with shoppers and sightseers; now, however,

was almost
deserted. The Palestinian intifada and recent threats by Iraq to
‘burn’ Israel with Scud missiles, had been enough to drive
it

,

virtually all foreigners away.

To my right, as I walked, was the Armenian Quarter and, to my
left, the Christian Quarter dominated by the

Church of the Holy

Sepulchre. Within this great edifice was the Chapel of the
Invention of the Cross which the victorious

Muslim general

Saladin - at the request of King Lalibela - had granted to the

Ethiopian community ofjerusalem after the Crusaders had been
expelled from the city in ad i 187.

1

In later years the Ethiopians

had lost their privileges in the chapel. I knew, however, that they
still occupied an extensive monastery on its roof.
I continued in an easterly direction through the silent and
deserted alleys, many of which were covered with canvas awnings
that cut out the glare and heat of the afternoon sun, creating a
cool, almost subterranean atmosphere. A few forlorn shopkeepers sitting in their doorways made half-hearted attempts to
sell me souvenirs that I did not want and bags of ripe oranges that
I had no desire to carry.
To my right now, as I proceeded along the Street of the Chain,
was the Jewish Quarter where gangs of Hasidic youths dressed in

360

Where is the Glory?

,

dark suits and incongruous fur hats roamed pugnaciously about,
declaring by their body language that they were the masters of all
they surveyed. To my left, filled to the brim with unhappiness,
frustration and restless despair, was the Muslim Quarter. And
straight ahead, rising up above the clutter of the old city like a

golden symbol of hope, was the Dome of the Rock - the beautiful
mosque erected by the Caliph Omar and his successors in the
seventh century ad and regarded as the third most sacred place
in the Islamic world.

2

was the Dome of the Rock that I had come to see, although
not because of its significance to Muslims but because it had
been built on the original site of the Temple of Solomon. Inside I
knew that I would find a great stone, believed by orthodox Jews to
be the Shetiyyah - the foundation-stone of the world. And on that
It

stone, in the tenth century bc, amidst the ‘thick darkness’ of the

Holy of Holies, the Ark of the Covenant had been placed by
Solomon himself. 3 Like a man who seeks to conjure up an image
of his long-departed lover by caressing some item of her clothing,
I therefore hoped that by touching the Shetiyyah I might gain a
deeper and more abiding sense of the lost relic that I sought.
This, however, was not my only purpose on that afternoon in
October. Just a few hundred metres to the south of the Dome of
the Rock I knew that I would also be able to visit another building
of central importance to my quest - the Al-Aqsa Mosque, which
the Knights Templar had used as their headquarters in the
twelfth century ad. From this base, I suspected, they had sallied
forth to conduct investigations of their

own in the caverns

beneath the Shetiyyah - where certain legends suggested that the
Ark had been concealed shortly before the destruction of
Solomon’s Temple. 4
It was to the Al-Aqsa Mosque that I went first, slipping off my
shoes and entering the cool and roomy rectangular hall believed
by Muslims to be the ‘furthermost sanctuary’, to which
Muhammad was supposedly transported by angels on his famous
Night Journey. Whatever place of prayer existed in the Prophet’s
lifetime (ad 570-632) had long since vanished, however, and I
was confronted by a medley of different building styles, the oldest
of which dated back to around ad 1035 an d the most recent to
the period 1938-42, when the Italian dictator Mussolini had

The Glory is departed from Israel

361

donated the forest of marble columns that lay ahead of me and
when King Farouk of Egypt had financed the restoration and
repainting of the ceiling. 5
The Templars, too, had left their mark on the great mosque.
Taking up residence here in ad 1 1 19 and not leaving until 1187
when they were driven out of Jerusalem by Saladin, they had

been responsible, amongst other things, for the three magnificent central bays of the porch. Much of the other architecture
that the knights had

added had subsequently been destroyed.
Their refectory, however, had survived (being incorporated into
the nearby Women’s Mosque), and the vast underground area
which they had developed as stables for their horses (the so6
called ‘Stables of Solomon’) were also in a good state of repair.
As I carefully picked my way in stockinged feet amongst the
Muslims who were already assembling for afternoon prayer I felt
strangely light-headed but at the same time alert - keyed-up.
The jumble of different eras and influences, the old mixed in
with the new, Mussolini’s marble columns, and the eleventhcentury Islamic mosaics, had all conspired to confuse my
perceptions. Currents of incense-laden air wafted through the

spacious and light-filled interior, summoning up visions of the

European knights who had lived and died here so long ago and
who had named their strange and secretive order after the
Temple of Solomon - the site of which, now occupied by the
Dome of the Rock, was only two minutes’ walk away.
The raison d'etre of the Temple had been extremely simple. It
had been conceived and designed as nothing more, and nothing
less, than ‘an house of rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the
Lord’. 7 But the Ark, of course, had long since vanished, and the
Temple, too, was gone. Utterly and completely destroyed by the
Babylonians in 587 bc, the structure erected by Solomon had
been replaced half a century later by the Second Temple which, in its turn, had been razed by the Romans in ad 70. The
site had then lapsed into disuse until the arrival of the Muslim
8
armies in ad 638 when the Dome of the Rock had been built.
Throughout all these changes the Shetiyyah had remained in
place. The sacred floor on which the Ark had once stood was
therefore the single constant factor that had weathered all the
storms of history, that had seen Jews and Babylonians and

362

Where is the Glory?

'

Romans and Christians and Muslims come and go, and that still
endured today.
Leaving the Al-Aqsa Mosque, and slipping on my shoes again,
I now made my way up through the tree-lined precincts of the

Temple Mount to the Dome of the Rock - the very name of
which reflected its guardianship of the Shetiyyah. A large and
elegant octagonal building faced with rich blue

tiling,

its

dominant exterior feature was its massive golden dome (which,
indeed, could be seen from many different parts of Jerusalem).
To my eye, however, there was nothing overwhelming about this
tall and perfect monument. On the contrary it conveyed a
complex feeling of lightness and grace coupled with an understated but reassuring strength.

This first impression was enhanced and completed by the
interior of the building, which quite literally took my breath away.
The soaring ceiling, the columns and arches supporting the inner
octagon, the various niches and recesses, the mosaics, the
inscriptions - all these elements and many more melded together
in a sublime harmony of proportion and design that gave
eloquent expression to humanity’s yearning for the divine and
that* proclaimed that yearning to be both noble and profound.
My glance had been drawn upwards when I entered - upwards
into the cupola, the farthest reaches of which were lost in the cool
darkness overhead. Now, however, as though attracted by some
powerful magnetic force, I felt my attention tugged down again
towards the very centre of the mosque where a huge tawny rock
perhaps thirty feet across, flat in places, jagged in others, lay
directly beneath the dome.
This was the Shetiyyah and, as I approached it, I was aware that
my heart was beating more quickly than usual and that my
breathing seemed laboured. It was not difficult to understand
why the ancients had thought of this great boulder as the
foundation-stone of the world or to see why Solomon had chosen
it
as the centrepiece of his Temple. Rough- textured and
asymmetrical, it jutted out above the bedrock of Mount Moriah
as solid and as unshakable as the earth itself.
A carved wooden railing surrounded the whole central area,
but into one corner of this railing was set a shrine through which I
was allowed to push my hand to touch the Shetiyyah Its texture,
.

The Glory is departed from Israel

363

smoothed down by the caresses of countless generations of
pilgrims before me, was slick, almost glasslike, and I stood there,
lost in

my own thoughts, drinking in through the pores of my

fingers the

stone.

immense antiquity of this strange and wonderful

Though it was perhaps a small victory, it nevertheless

meant a great deal to me to be in this place and to savour this

moment of quiet reflection at the source of the mystery that I
sought to solve.
Eventually I withdrew my hand and continued my circuit of the

down to a deep hollow
beneath the stone - a cave-like cist known to the Muslims as Bir

Shetiyyah. At one side a stairway led

el-Arweh the ‘Well of Souls’. Here, according to the faithful, the
,

voices of the dead could sometimes be heard mingled with the

sounds of the rivers of paradise. As I entered, however, I could
hear nothing except the murmured prayers of the half-dozen or
so pilgrims who had preceded me and who were now slumped in
obeisance on the cold rock floor invoking in mellifluous Arabic
the name of Allah, the Compassionate, the Merciful - a deity
whose prophets, long before the time of Muhammad, had
included Abraham and Moses and who, in his absolute and
uncompromising oneness was in no way different from Yahweh,
,

the God of the Ark. 9
I

already knew that a number of Jewish and Islamic legends

spoke of a sealed and secret passage beneath the Well of Souls
leading into the bowels of the earth, where the Ark had
supposedly been concealed at the time of the destruction of

Solomon’s Temple - and where many believed that it rested still,
10
guarded by spirits and demons. As noted in Part II, I suspected
that the Knights Templar could have been motivated to search
here for the Ark in the twelfth century ad after learning of these
legends. One variant of the tale that might particularly have
excited their interest purported to be an eyewitness account by a
certain ‘Baruch’ of an intervention by an ‘angel of the Lord’ only

moments before the Babylonian army broke into the Temple:

And I saw him descend into the Holy of Holies, and
take from it the veil, and the Holy Ark, and its cover, and

the two tablets

.

.

.

And he cried to the earth in a loud

voice, ‘Earth, earth, earth, hear the word of the mighty

2

364

Where is the Glory?

*

God, and receive what I commit to you, and guard them
until the last times, so that, when you are ordered, you may
restore them, and strangers may not get possession of
And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed
them
11
them up.
.

.

.’

If the Templars had indeed been inspired by this text to search

beneath the Well of Souls they would not, I was absolutely
confident, have found the Ark there. The so-called ‘Apocalypse
of Baruch’ (from which the above quotation is taken) might easily
have seemed to them like a genuinely ancient document dating
from the sixth century bc. The truth, however, as modern
scholarship had subsequently revealed, was that it was written in
the late first century ad and that it therefore could not possibly
have been an eyewitness account of the concealment of the
sacred relic, whether by an angel or by any other agency. On the
contrary it was, from beginning to end, a work of imaginative
fiction which, despite its eerie and evocative tone, possessed no
historical merit whatsoever.

1

For this and other reasons, I felt sure that the Templars would
have been frustrated in their excavations beneath the Temple
Mount. But I also suspected that they had later learned of
Ethiopia’s claim to be the last resting place of the Ark and that a
group of knights had ultimately gone there to investigate this
claim for themselves.

13

was following the same trail that those knights had
stumbled upon so many centuries before, and I felt that it
I,

too,

pointed compellingly towards the sanctuary chapel in the sacred

Before attempting to make my own way into the
war-torn highlands of Tigray, however, I wanted to be absolutely
city of Axum.

satisfied that there was no other country or place where the lost
relic

could be. It was that desire that had brought me to the

original site of the Temple of Solomon on 4 October 1990. And

was that desire that had drawn me to the Shetiyyah on which the
Ark had once stood and from which it had vanished.
That was my starting point, but now I intended to use the rest
of my stay in Jerusalem to talk to religious and academic
authorities and to examine in the greatest possible depth all the
circumstances known to have surrounded the mysterious disit

,

The Glory is departed from Israel

365

appearance of the relic. Only if I was still confident of the basic
merit of the Ethiopian claim after I had completed that exercise
would I finally commit myself to the Axum adventure. The
January 1991 Timkat ceremonials at which I hoped that the
object believed to be the Ark would be carried in procession
were, however, less than four months away. I was therefore
acutely aware that my time was running out.

What house can you build me?
The installation of the Ark in the Temple of Solomon, which - as
had already established - must have taken place around the year
14
was described in the first book of Kings:
955 bc
I

,

Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel

.

.

.

And

the priests brought in the Ark of the Covenant of the

Lord to its place in the Temple ... in the Holy of
Holies
And it came to pass, when the priests were
.

.

.

come out of the holy place, that the cloud filled the house
of the Lord, so that the priests could not stand to minister
because of the cloud: for the glory of the Lord had filled
the house of the Lord. Then spake Solomon, ‘The Lord
said that he would dwell in the thick darkness. I have

surely built thee a house to dwell in,

,

a settled place for

But will God indeed dwell on
the earth? behold, the heaven and heaven of heavens
cannot contain thee; how much less this house that I have
thee to abide in forever

builded?’

.

.

.

15

According to the Scriptures, Solomon had later ‘turned away his
heart after other gods’ and had worshipped with particular
enthusiasm ‘Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians and
6
Milcom the abomination of the AmoritesV Because of this
tendency to apostasy I found it difficult to believe that the
monarch whose legendary wisdom was said to have excelled ‘all
17
had ever really held Yahweh in especially
the wisdom of Egypt’
high esteem. And for the same reason I did not think that he had
been paying metaphysical tribute to the omnipotence and
omnipresence of the God of Israel when he had expressed his
.

.

.

366

Where is the Glory?

doubts about the ability of the Temple to ‘contain’ the Ark. On
the contrary, it seemed to me that when Solomon had uttered

these curious words he had been giving voice to genuine fears of a

pragmatic rather than of a spiritual nature. Might not the sacred
relic still break free, even though it was anchored now to the very
foundation-stone of the world? Might not the unpredictable
energies pent up within

it

be

still

sufficiently

potent and

dangerous to burn through the thick darkness of the Holy of
Holies and to destroy the great ‘house’ that had been erected
around it?
There was, I felt, a real sense in which the Temple appeared to
have been built less as an earthly palace for a dearly beloved but
incorporeal deity than as a kind of prison for the Ark of the

Covenant. Within the Holy of Holies, above the two cherubim
that faced each other across the relic’s golden lid, Solomon had
installed two additional cherubim of giant size - grim guardians
indeed, with wingspans of fifteen feet or more, all covered in
18
gold.
Meanwhile the Holy of Holies itself - the purpose of
which, the Bible stated explicitly, had been ‘to contain the Ark of
19 had been a perfect cube,
the Covenant of Yahweh’
foursquare and immensely strong. Measuring thirty feet long, by
20
thirty feet wide, by thirty feet high,
its floor, its four walls and its
ceiling had been lined with pure gold, weighing an estimated
21
22
45,000 pounds, and riveted with golden nails.
Nor was this golden cell the only feature of the Temple’s
construction that caught my attention. At least as interesting was
the pedigree of the craftsman - a foreigner - who had been called
in to complete all the other metalwork that Solomon had
required:

And Solomon sent for Hiram of Tyre; he was the son of a
widow of the tribe of Naphtali
and he was filled with
wisdom, and understanding, and cunning to work all
works in bronze. 23
.

.

.

The phrase emphasized above in italics had jumped out at me
from the page as soon as I had set eyes upon it. Why? Because I
knew that the very first mention in literature of the Grail hero
Parzival had described him in almost exactly the same words as

The Glory is departed from Israel
‘

the son of the widowed lady \

24

367

Indeed, both Chretien de Troyes,

Wolfram von
Eschenbach, had gone to great lengths to make it clear that
25
Parzival’s mother had been a widow.
Could I be looking, I wondered, at yet another of the bizarre

the founder of the genre, and his successor

coincidences in which, through the use of dense and often
deceptive symbolism, the fictional quest for the Holy Grail

seemed to have been deliberately devised to serve as a cryptogram for the real quest for the lost Ark? I had long since
satisfied myself that the Knights Templar had been key players in
both and

that,

after

the

destruction of their order in the

fourteenth century, many of their traditions had been preserved
in Freemasonry. I was therefore intrigued to learn that Hiram of

Tyre,

who the Bible said had been called to Jerusalem by

Solomon, was not only a widow’s son like Parzival, but also a
figure of immense significance to Freemasons - who knew him as
‘Hiram Abiff ’, and who made reference to him in all their most
important rituals.

26

According to Masonic tradition Hiram was murderd by three
of his assistants soon after he had completed the bronzework of
the Temple. And this event was for some reason regarded as so
laden with meaning that it was commemorated in the initiation
ceremonies for Master Masons - in which each initiate was
required to play the role of the murder victim. In one authoritative study I found this description of the relevant part of the
ceremonial (which is still in regular use today):
Blindfolded on the ground, the initiate hears the three
murderers decide to bury him in a pile of rubble until
‘low twelve’ (midnight), when they will carry the body

away from the Temple. To symbolise the burial of Hiram
Abiff, the candidate is wrapped in a blanket and carried
to the side of the room. Soon he hears a bell strike twelve
times and is carried from the ‘rubble’ grave to a grave dug
on the brow of a hill ‘west of Mount Moriah’ (the Temple
Mount). He hears the murderers agree to mark his grave
with a sprig of acacia, then set out to escape to Ethiopia
across the Red Sea.

27

368

Where is the Glory?

Here, then, were more coincidences - a minor one in the form of
the sprig of acacia (the same wood that was used to make the
Ark), and a major one in the Masonic tradition that Hiram’s
murderers had intended to flee ‘to Ethiopia’. I had no idea how
much weight I should attach to such details but I could not rid
myself of the feeling that they must in some way be relevant to my
quest.

This suspicion deepened, furthermore, when I turned back to
the Bible to find that one of the bronze items of Temple furniture
that Hiram was said to have built was
the Sea of cast metal, ten cubits from rim to rim, circular
in shape and five cubits high; a cord thirty cubits long

gave the measurement of its girth ... It was a

handsbreadth in thickness, and its rim was shaped like
the rim of a cup, like a flower. It held two thousand
baths.

28

This ‘Sea’, I learned, had stood in the courtyard of the Temple. It
had been a huge bronze basin, fifteen feet in diameter and seven
and' a half feet high. It had weighed around thirty tonnes when
empty but had normally been kept full with an estimated 10,000
29

Most authorities admitted frankly that they
did not know what its function had been - although some thought

gallons of water.

that it had symbolized the ‘primordial waters’ referred to in the

book of Genesis 30 and others believed that it had been used by
the priests for their ritual ablutions.

31
I,

however, found neither

of these hypotheses satisfactory - and, of the two, the latter

seemed the most improbable because the Bible stated quite
plainly that Hiram had made ten smaller bronze basins for
precisely this purpose (placed on wheeled stands, each basin held
‘forty

baths’

32
).

After reviewing the

evidence,

therefore,

entered the following speculation in my notebook:
Is it not possible that the bronze ‘Sea’ which Hiram

made

for the courtyard of Solomon’s Temple was a throwback
to the ancient Egyptian rituals on which the ceremonies

of the Ark appear to have been closely modelled? In the
festival of Apet at Luxor the ‘Arks’ containing effigies of

I

The Glory is departed from Israel

369

the gods were always carried to water. 33 And this, too, is
precisely what happens in Ethiopia today: at Timkat in

Gondar the tabotat are carried to the edge of a ‘sacred lake’ at
the rear of the castle. 34 So perhaps the bronze Sea was also a
kind of sacred lake?

According to the Bible, the other items fashioned by Hiram for
Solomon’s Temple had included ‘the ash containers, the scoops
and the sprinkling bowls’ 35 and also
two bronze pillars; the height of one pillar was eighteen
cubits, and a cord twelve cubits long gave the
measurement of its girth; so also was the second
pillar ... He set up the pillars in front of the vestibule of
the sanctuary; he set up the right-hand pillar and named
it Jachin; he set up the left-hand pillar and named it
Boaz. So the work on the pillars was completed. 36

and Boaz, I discovered, also featured in Masonic
traditions. 37 According to the ‘old ritual’ these two great pillars
had been hollow. Inside them had been stored the ‘ancient
records’ and the ‘valuable writings’ pertaining to the past of the
38
And amongst these records, the Freemasons
Jewish people.
claimed, had been ‘the secret of the magical Shamir and the
Jachin

history of its properties’. 39

My curiosity was aroused by this mention of the ‘magical
Shamir What had it been? Was it just a piece of Masonic arcana,
or was it referred to in the Bible?
After a painstaking search, I was able to confirm that the word
‘Shamir’ appeared only four times in the Old and New
Testaments 40 - thrice as a place name and once as the name of a
man. Clearly, therefore, none of these could have been the
‘magical’ Shamir, the secrets of which the Masons claimed had
been concealed in Hiram’s bronze pillars.
I did find the information that I was looking for, however - not
in the Scriptures but in the Talmudic-Midrashic sources at my
disposal. Because Moses had commanded the Israelites not to
’.

41

use ‘any tool of iron’ in the construction of holy places,
Solomon had ordered that no hammers, axes or chisels should be

370

Where is the Glory?

*

used to cut and dress the many massive stone blocks from which
the outer walls and .courtyard of the Temple had been built.
Instead he had provided the artificers with an ancient device,
42
This device was
dating back to the time of Moses himself
called the Shamir and was capable of cutting the toughest of
materials without friction or heat 43 Also known as ‘the stone that
.

.

splits rocks ’,

44

the Shamir may not be put in an iron vessel for

safekeeping, nor in any metal vessel: it would burst such a
receptacle asunder. It is kept wrapped up in a woollen
cloth, and this in turn is placed in a lead basket filled with

barley bran

.

.

.

With the destruction of the Temple the

Shamir vanished 45
.

was fascinated by this odd and ancient tradition, which also
claimed that the Shamir had possessed ‘the remarkable property
46
I then found a collateral
of cutting the hardest of diamonds ’.
version of the same story which added that it had been quite
noiseless while it was at work 47
I

.

All in all, I concluded, these characteristics (like many of the

Ark of the Covenant) sounded broadly
technological in nature, rather than in any way ‘magical’ or
characteristics of the

supernatural. And I also thought it significant that this peculiar

device - again like the Ark - had been directly associated with

Moses. Finally it did not seem to me entirely irrelevant that the
Freemasons had maintained their own separate traditions about
it - traditions which stated that its secrets had been concealed
inside the two bronze pillars placed ‘in front of the vestibule of
the sanctuary’ by Hiram the widow’s son.
Without knowledge of those long-lost ‘secrets’, I realized that I
could not hope to go any further with this line of inquiry. At the
same time, however, I felt that the story of the Shamir deepened
the mystery surrounding the real nature of the great stronghold

on the top of Mount Moriah that had been built and explicitly
dedicated as ‘an house of rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the
Lord’. With its bronze pillars and its bronze ‘Sea’, its giant
cherubim and its golden inner shrine, Solomon’s Temple had
clearly been a special place, wonderfully made, the focus of

The Glory is departed from Israel

371

superstition and religious dread, and the centre of Jewish faith

and

cultural

life.

How,

then, could the

Ark possibly have

disappeared from it?

Shishak, Jehoash and Nebuchadnezzar

An obvious answer to the last question - which, if correct, would
completely invalidate the Ethiopian claim - was that the Ark

could have been taken by force from the Temple during one of
the several military catastrophes that Israel suffered after the

death of Solomon.

The first of these catastrophes occurred in 926 bc during the
unsuccessful

reign

of Solomon’s son Rehoboam. 48 Then,

according to the first book of Kings, an Egyptian Pharaoh known
as Sheshonq (or ‘Shishak’) mounted a full-scale invasion:

In the fifth year of king Rehoboam

.

.

.

Shishak king of

Egypt came up against Jerusalem: And he took away the
treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of
the king’s house; he even took away all. 49

There was nothing in this tantalizingly brief account to suggest
that Shishak’s booty had not included the Ark of the Covenant.
But if the Ark had indeed been captured just thirty years after
Solomon had installed it in the Temple then it seemed to me that
the scribes would have said so - and would in addition have
lamented the loss of the precious relic. They had not even
mentioned it, however 50 - which to my mind implied one of two
things: either the Ark had been secretly removed before the
arrival of the Egyptian army (perhaps during the reign of
Solomon himself as Ethiopian tradition insisted); or it had
remained in situ in the Holy of Holies throughout the invasion.
But the notion that the Pharaoh could have taken it looked most
implausible.

A further indication that this was so had been left by Shishak
himself in the form of his vast triumphal relief at Karnak. I had
already become quite familiar with that relief during my various
visits to Egypt and I felt sure that it had made no mention of the

Ark of the Covenant or, for that matter, of any siege or pillage of

372

Where is the Glory?

Jerusalem.

51

,

On checking further I was now able to confirm that

this impression had been correct. One authoritative study stated

unequivocally that the majority of the towns and cities listed as

having been sacked by Shishak had in fact been in the northern
part of Israel:

Jerusalem, target of Shishak’s campaign according to the
Bible, is missing. Although the inscription is heavily

damaged, it is certain that Jerusalem was not included
because the list is arranged into geographical sequences

which allow no space for the name Jerusalem. 52

What then could have happened at the holy city to explain the
Scriptural assertion that Shishak had taken away ‘the treasures of
the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king’s house’?

The academic consensus, I discovered, was that the Pharaoh
had surrounded Jerusalem but that he had never actually entered
it;
instead he had been ‘bought off with the treasures of
Solomon’s temple and palace.’ 53 These treasures, moreover,
could not possibly have included the Ark, even if it had still been
the*e in 926 bc; instead they would have consisted of far less
sacred items, mainly public and royal donations dedicated to
Yahweh. Such items, normally quite precious and made of silver
and gold, were not stored in the Holy of Holies but rather in the
outer precincts of the Temple in special treasuries that were
always mentioned in the Old Testament conjointly with the
treasuries of the king’s house. 54 ‘Occasionally,’ as one leading
biblical scholar put it,

these treasuries were depleted either by foreign invaders

or by the kings themselves when they were in need of
funds. The treasuries thus constantly oscillated between a
state of affluence and want

.

.

.

The invasion of Shishak

[had], therefore, nothing to do with the Temple

sanctums, and it would be entirely inaccurate to associate
[it]

with the disappearance of the Ark. 55

Precisely the same caution, I discovered, also applied to the

next occasion on which the Temple had apparently been looted.

The Glory is departed from Israel

373

This had happened at a time when the unified state that David
and Solomon had forged had been split into two warring
kingdoms - ‘Judah’ in the south (which included Jerusalem) and
56
‘Israel’ in the north. In 796 bc
Jehoash, the monarch of the
northern kingdom, joined battle at Bethshemesh with his
Judaean counterpart Amaziah:

And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they
fled every man to their tents. And Jehoash king of Israel
took Amaziah king of Judah ... at Bethshemesh, and

came to Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of
Jerusalem

.

.

.

And he took all the gold and silver, and all

the vessels that were found in the house of the Lord, and
in the treasuries of the king’s house. 57

Once again, this pillage of the Temple had not involved the Holy
of Holies or the Ark of the Covenant. As one authority on the
period explained:

Jehoash did not even enter the Temple’s outer sanctum,
The phrase ‘the house of
certainly not the inner one
the Lord’ mentioned in connection with Jehoash ... is
simply a shortened form of ‘the treasuries of the house of
the Lord’. This may be seen from the fact that the
‘treasuries of the king’s house’ which are always
contiguously mentioned with the ‘treasuries of the house
58
of the Lord’ are also mentioned.
.

.

.

So much then for Shishak and Jehoash. The reason that
neither of them had claimed to have taken the Ark, and the
reason that neither had been reported by the Bible to have done
so, was now quite clear to me: they had got nowhere

near the

Holy of Holies in which the sacred relic had been kept and had
helped themselves only to minor treasures of gold and silver.
The same, however, could not be said for Jerusalem’s next and
greatest invader, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. He attacked
and occupied the holy city not once but twice, and even on the
59 it was clear that he had penetrated
first occasion, in 598 bc
,

Where is the Glory?

374

»

deeply into the Temple itself. The Bible described this disaster
in the following terms:

The troops of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon marched
on Jerusalem, and the city was besieged. Nebuchadnezzar
himself came to attack the city while his troops were
besieging it. Then Jehoiachin king of Judah surrendered
.

.

.

to the king of Babylon, he, his mother, his officers, his

nobles and his eunuchs, and the king of Babylon took

them prisoner. This was the eighth year of King
Nebuchadnezzar. The latter carried off all the treasures
of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king's
house, and cut in pieces all the golden furnishings that
Solomon king of Israel had made for the sanctuary of
60
Yahweh.

What had Nebuchadnezzar's booty consisted of? I already knew
that the ‘treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of

the king's house' could not have included any truly sacred objects

such as the Ark. As noted above, these phrases had very specific
and distinct meanings in the original Hebrew and referred only
to dispensable items stored in the royal and priestly treasuries.
More significant by far was the statement that the Babylonian
monarch had ‘cut in pieces all the golden furnishings that
Solomon king of Israel had made for the sanctuary of Yahweh.’
The Hebrew word that the translators of the Jerusalem Bible had
rendered as ‘sanctuary' was, I discovered, hekal and its precise

meaning was ‘outer sanctum’.

61

In trying to envisage its location I

found it useful to recall the basic layout of Ethiopian Orthodox
churches which - as I had learned on my trip to Gondar in
January 1990 - exactly reflected the tripartite division of the
Temple of Solomon. 62 By co-ordinating this mental picture with
the best scholarly research on the subject I was able to confirm
beyond any shadow of a doubt that the hekal had corresponded
63
to the k'eddest of Ethiopian churches.
This meant that the
‘sanctuary of Yahweh' despoiled by Nebuchadnezzar had not
been the Holy of Holies in which the Ark had stood but rather the
antechamber to that sacred place. The Holy of Holies itself - the
inner sanctum - had been known in ancient Hebrew as the debir

The Glory is departed from Israel

375

and corresponded to the mak das in which the tabotat were kept
’

in Ethiopian churches.

64

Temple at the time of
Nebuchadnezzar’s first attack, therefore - and that, as it turned
out, was a very big if - then it was certain that the Babylonian king
If the

Ark had

still

been

in the

had not taken it. Instead he had contented himself with cutting
‘in pieces’ and carrying off the ‘golden furnishings’ that Solomon
had placed in the hekal 65 The other ‘furnishings’ that had been
looted by Nebuchadnezzar - and the list was quite specific - were
.

as follows:

the lamp-stands, five on the right and five on the left in
front of the debir, of pure gold; the floral work, the lamps,

the extinguishers of gold; the basins, knives, sprinkling

bowls, incense boats, censers, of pure gold; the door
sockets for the inner shrine - that is, the Holy of Holies

- and for the hekal of gold.
,

Of course, in this translation, the terms ‘inner shrine’, ‘debir* and
‘Holy of Holies’ were all used interchangeably to refer to the
same sacred place - i.e. the place in which the Ark had been
installed by Solomon so many centuries before.

67

Once I had

satisfied myself that that was indeed the case, a single significant

fact suddenly became clear to me: while not looting the Holy of

Nebuchadnezzar had nonetheless removed its doorsockets. From this it was safe to deduce that the doors had been
taken off their hinges and that the Babylonian monarch - or the
soldiers who had carried out his orders - would thus have been
Holies,

able to look right into the debir.
I

realized immediately that this was an important, indeed a

crucial, finding. Gazing into the inner sanctum the Babylonians

should immediately have been able to see the two giant
cherubim, overlaid with gold, that Solomon had placed as
sentinels over the Ark - and they should also have been able to
see the Ark itself. Since they had shown no compunction in
removing the gold from the furnishings of the hekal it therefore
had to be asked why they had not immediately rushed into the
debir to strip the far larger quantities of gold from its walls and

from the cherubim, and why they had not taken the Ark as booty.

,

376

Where is the Glory?

»

The Babylonians had demonstrated that they held the Jews 68

and their religion - in complete contempt. There was thus no
mileage in assuming that they might have refrained from looting
the Holy of Holies out of some sort of altruistic desire to spare the
feelings of the vanquished.

suggested that

if

On the contrary all the evidence

they had indeed been confronted by rich

pickings like the Ark, and the gold overlay on the walls and on the

cherubim, then Nebuchadnezzar and his men would unhesitatingly have helped themselves to the lot.
What made this even more probable was that it had been the
normal practice of the Babylonians at this time to seize the
principal idols or cult-objects of the peoples they had conquered
and to transport them back to Babylon to place in their own
69
temple before the statue of their god Marduk. The Ark would
have been an ideal candidate for this sort of treatment. Yet it had
not even been stripped of its gold, let alone carried off intact.
Indeed neither it nor the cherubim had been mentioned at all.

The logical conclusion [I wrote in my notebook] is that
the Ark and the gold-covered cherubim were no longer in

the debir in 598 bc when the first Babylonian invasion

took place - and, indeed, that the walls, floor and ceiling

of the debir had also been stripped of their gold prior to
that date. This would seem to lend at least prima facie
support to the Ethiopian claim - since I have already
established that Shishak and Jehoash did not get their

hands on the Ark, or on the other precious contents of
the debir and since they were the only previous invaders
to have acquired any sort of treasure from the Temple.

Of course the Babylonian assault on Jerusalem in 598 bc had
not been the last that Nebuchadnezzar would mount - and the

conclusion that I had just scribbled in my notebook would be

proved completely false if there were any evidence to suggest that
he had taken the Ark the second time that he sacked the holy city.
After the successful operation of 598 bc he had installed a
puppet king, Zedekiah, on the throne. 70 This ‘puppet’, however,
turned out to have ideas of his own and, in 589 bc, he rebelled
71
against his Babylonian overlord.

The Glory is departed from Israel

377

The response was, instantaneous. Nebuchadnezzar marched
on Jerusalem once again and laid siege to it, finally breaching its
walls and overrunning it in late June or early July of the year 587
bc 72 Slightly less than a month later: 73
.

Nebuzaradan, commander of the guard, an officer of the
burned down the Temple of Yahweh,
king of Babylon
the royal palace and all the houses in Jerusalem. The
troops who accompanied the commander of the guard
broke up the bronze pillars from the Temple of Yahweh,
the wheeled stands and the bronze Sea that were in the
Temple of Yahweb, and took the bronze away to Babylon.
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

They took the ash containers, the scoops, the knives, the
incense boats, and all the bronze furnishings used in
worship. The commander of the guard took the censers

and the sprinkling bowls, everything that was made of
gold and everything made of silver. As regards the two
there was
pillars, the one Sea and the wheeled stands
no reckoning the weight in bronze in all these objects. 74
.

.

.

This, then, was the detailed inventory offered in the Bible of all
the objects and treasures broken up or carried off to Babylon
after Nebuchadnezzar’s second attack on the city. Once again,

and significantly, the Ark of the Covenant was not included - and
nor was the gold that Solomon had used to line the Holy of
Holies and to overlay the great cherubim that had stood within
that sacred place. Indeed absolutely nothing else was mentioned
at all and it was clear that the bulk of the loot taken in 587 bc had
consisted of bronze salvaged from the pillars and the ‘Sea’ - and
also from the wheeled basins - that Hiram had made four
centuries earlier.

A fact that argued very strongly in favour of the basic veracity
of the list was that it was entirely consistent with the biblical

account of what had previously been stolen from the Temple in
598 bc. On that occasion Nebuchadnezzar had left the bronze
items in place but had removed the ‘treasures of the house of the

Lord, and the treasures of the king’s house’ and had also stripped
off all the gold from the furnishings of the hekal. This was why,
eleven years later, Nebuzaradan’s haul of gold and silver had

.

37 »

Where is the Glory?

*

consisted only of a few censers and sprinkling bowls: 75 he had

not been able to find anything more valuable for the simple
reason that all the best items had been looted and taken to

Babylon in 598 bc.
Since I had already satisfied myself that those items had not
included the Ark, and since the relic had not been amongst the
second lot of booty either, I felt increasing confidence in my
conclusion that it must have disappeared at some stage prior to
the Babylonian invasions. By the same token the other oft-cited
explanation for the loss of the relic - namely that it must have
been destroyed in the great fire that Nebuzaradan had started 76
- also looked increasingly untenable. If the Ark had indeed been
taken away before 598 bc - perhaps to Ethiopia - then it would
of course have escaped the destruction of the Temple.
But was it safe, from this chain of reasoning, to deduce that it
had gone to Ethiopia? Certainly not. Researching the matter
further I found that Judaic traditions offered several alternative
explanations for what had happened - any of which, if sufficiently
strong, might prove fatal to the Ethiopian case and all of which
therefore had to be considered on their merits.

‘Deep and tortuous caches

.

The first point that became clear to me was that the Jews as a
people had only become conscious of the loss of the Ark - and
conscious that this loss was a great mystery - at the time of the
building of the Second Temple.

was already aware that in 598 bc Nebuchadnezzar had sent
into exile in Babylon a large number of the inhabitants of
Jerusalem. 77 In 587 bc, after the burning of Solomon’s Temple,
I

Nebuzaradan, commander of the guard, deported the
remainder of the population left behind in the city, the
deserters who had gone over to the king of Babylon, and
the rest of the common people
Thus Judah was
78
deported from this land.
.

.

.

The trauma of the banishment, the humiliations of the captivity,
and the firm resolve that Jerusalem should never be forgotten,

The Glory is departed from Israel

379

were soon to be immortalized in one of the most poignant and
evocative pieces of poetry in the whole of the Old Testament:

By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept,
when we remembered Zion.

We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst
thereof,

For there they that carried us away captive required of us
a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth,
saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion.

How shall we sing the Lord’s song in a strange land?
If I forget thee,

O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her

cunning.

my tongue cleave to the
roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my

If I do not remember thee, let

chief joy. 79

This physical exile of an entire people was not to last for very
long. Nebuchadnezzar had begun the process in 598 bc and had
completed it in 587. Slightly less than half a century later,
however, the empire that had expanded so dramatically under his
rule was utterly crushed by Cyrus the Great, king of Persia,
8°
whose triumphant armies entered Babylon in 539 bc.
This Cyrus, who has been described as ‘one of the world’s
81
adopted an enlightened
most astonishing empire-builders’,
approach towards his subject peoples. There were others, like
the Jews, who had also been held captive in Babylon. He made it
his business to set them all free. Moreover, he permitted them to
remove their confiscated idols and cult objects from the temple of
Marduk and to carry these home with them. 82
The Jews, of course, were unable to take full advantage of this
latter opportunity, because their principal cult object, the Ark of
the Covenant, had not been brought to Babylon in the first place.
Nevertheless

a

large

number of the

lesser

treasures

that

380

Where is the Glory?

*

Nebuchadnezzar had seized were still intact, and these the
Persians handed over with all due ceremony to the appropriate
Judaean officials. The Old Testament contained a detailed
report of the transaction:

King Cyrus took the vessels of the Temple of Yahweh
which Nebuchadnezzar had carried away from Jerusalem
and dedicated to the temple of his god. Cyrus king of
Persia handed them over to Mithredath, the treasurer,
who counted them out to Sheshbazzar, the prince of
Judah. The inventory was as follows: thirty golden bowls
for offerings; one thousand and twenty-nine silver bowls
for offerings; thirty golden bowls; four hundred and ten
silver bowls; one thousand other vessels. In all, five

thousand four hundred vessels of gold and silver.
Sheshbazzar took all these with him when the exiles
83
travelled back from Babylon to Jerusalem.

That return journey took place in 538 bc 84 Then, in the
spring of 537 bc, the Second Temple began to be built above the
85
ra£ed foundations of the First. The work was finally completed
86
around 517 BC
and although this was a cause for great
rejoicing there were also reasons for sorrow. The removal of the
Ark of the Covenant from the First Temple - whenever it had
occurred - had clearly been kept secret from the public (not a
difficult task since no one but the High Priest was supposed to
enter the Holy of Holies). Now, however, after the return from
Babylon, it was impossible to disguise the fact that the precious
relic had gone, and that it therefore could not be installed in the
inner sanctum of the Second Temple. This great change was
explicitly admitted in the Talmud, which stated: ‘In five things
the First Sanctuary differed from the Second: in the Ark, the
Ark-cover, the Cherubim, the Fire, and the Urim-andThummim.’ 87 The Urim and Thummim had been mysterious
objects (here referred to collectively as a single object) that had
possibly been used for divining and that had been kept in the
breast-plate of the High Priest in the time of Moses. They were
not present in the Second Temple. Neither was the celestial fire
that had always been associated with the Ark of the Covenant.
.

,

The Glory is departed from Israel

381

And of course the Ark itself was also missing - together with its
thick golden cover and the two golden cherubim that had been

mounted upon it. 88

The secret, therefore, was out: the most precious relic of the
Jewish faith had vanished, apparently into thin air. Moreover the
people knew that it had not been brought into captivity with them
in Babylon. So where could it possibly have gone?
Almost at once theories started to circulate and, in the normal
way of things, some of these theories quickly took on the
character of revealed truths. The majority supposed that
Nebuchadnezzar’s looters had failed to find the Ark because,
before their arrival, it had been carefully hidden somewhere
within Mount Moriah itself, where the Second

Temple now

stood on the site previously occupied by the First. According to

one post-exilic legend, for example, Solomon had foreseen the
destruction of his Temple even while he was building it. For this
reason he had ‘contrived a place of concealment for the Ark, in
deep and tortuous caches’. 89
It was this tradition, I felt sure, that must have inspired the
author of the Apocalypse of Baruch to suggest that the relic had
been swallowed by the earth below the great ‘foundation stone’
known as the Shetiyyah I knew, of course that no reliance could
be placed on that relatively late and apocryphal work. Nevertheless I was aware that other accounts existed which likewise
.

identified some secret cavern within the Temple Mount as the
last resting place of the Ark.

Reinforcing the notion that that cavern might have been

beneath the Holy of Holies, the Talmud
90
expressed the view that ‘the Ark was buried in its own place.’
And this entombment, it seemed, had been the work of King
91
i.e.
Josiah, who had ruled in Jerusalem from 640 to 609 bc
until just a decade before the first Babylonian seizure of the city.
Near the end of his long reign, the story went, foreseeing ‘the
imminent destruction of the Temple’, ‘Josiah hid the Holy Ark
and all its appurtenances, in order to guard them against
92
desecration at the hands of the enemy.’
located

directly

,

This, I found, was quite a pervasive belief. Not all the sources,

however, agreed that the place of concealment had been in the
immediate vicinity of the Holy of Holies. Another parallel

382

Where is the Glory?

»

tradition, recorded in the Mishnah, suggested that the relic had

been buried ‘under the pavement of the wood-house, that it
might not fall into the hands of the enemy.’ 93 This wood-house
had stood within the precincts of Solomon’s Temple, but its
precise location had been forgotten by the time that the Jews
returned from their exile in Babylon and thus ‘remained secret
for all time’. 94 Nevertheless the Mishnah reported that a priest

had once been working in the courtyard of the Second Temple
and there, by accident, he had stumbled upon ‘a block of
pavement that was different from the rest’:

He went and told it to his fellow, but before he could
make an end of the matter his life departed. So they knew
assuredly that there the Ark lay hidden. 95

An entirely separate account of the concealment of the relic
was put forward in the second book of Maccabees

(a

work

excluded from the Hebrew Bible, but included in the canon of the

Greek and Latin Christian churches, and in the Apocrypha of
96
the English Bible ). Compiled at some time between 100 bc
and* ad 70 by a Jew of Pharisaic sympathies (who wrote in
Greek), 97 the opening verses of 2 Maccabees 2 had this to say
about the fate of the Ark:

The prophet Jeremiah

.

.

.

warned by an oracle [of the

impending destruction of the Temple of Solomon], gave
instructions for the tabernacle and the Ark to go with him
when he set out for the mountain which Moses had
climbed to survey God’s heritage. On his arrival Jeremiah
found a cave dwelling, into which he brought the
tabernacle, the Ark and the altar of incense, afterwards
blocking up the entrance. 98
In the opinion of the scholars who produced the authoritative

English translation of the Jerusalem Bible - from which the

above quotation is taken - Jeremiah’s supposed expedition to
hide the Ark was nothing more than an inspirational fable
devised by the author of the second book of Maccabees as part of
a deliberate attempt to re-awaken the interest of expatriate Jews

The Glory is departed from Israel

383

in the national homeland." The editors of the Oxford Dictionary

of the Christian Church likewise regarded the passage as being of
100

And since it was written some five
no historical value.
hundred years after the death of Jeremiah himself it could not
101
- although its
even be said to be a particularly ancient tradition
author had attempted to dress it up as such by claiming that he
102
had based his account on a document found in ‘the archives’.
It was a fact, however, that the prophet Jeremiah (unlike the
author of Maccabees) had lived at around the time of the
destruction of Solomon’s Temple - which meant that he could,
just conceivably, have played some role in the concealment of the
Ark. Moreover ‘the mountain which Moses had climbed to
103 was a known place
survey God’s heritage’ - Mount Nebo
that stood barely fifty kilometres to the east of Jerusalem as the

crow flies. 104 Culturally appropriate because of its associations
with the founder ofJudaism, this venerated peak thus also looked
like a feasible hiding place in terms of its geographical location.

The Maccabees story had therefore not been entirely dismissed by later generations of Jews; on the contrary, although
never incorporated into the Jewish canon of Scripture, it had
been substantially elaborated upon and embellished in the
folklore - where, for example, the knotty problem of exactly how
Jeremiah (who had been very much at odds with the priestly
105
fraternity in the Temple
) had managed to get the sacred items
out of the Holy of Holies and across the Jordan valley to Nebo
106
was solved by providing him with an angel for a helper!
After looking back through all the Jewish traditions that I had
surveyed concerning the last resting place of the Ark, I entered
the following summary in my notebook:
Outside of the Talmud, the Mishnah, the Apocalypse of
Baruch, the second book of Maccabees, and various
rather colourful legends, there is nothing of any substance
in Jewish tradition concerning the whereabouts of the Ark
of the Covenant. Since it now seems certain that it was
not looted by Shishak or Jehoash or Nebuchadnezzar, it
therefore follows that the only alternatives to the claim
that it is in Axum are (a) very sketchy, (b) historically

dubious, and (c) lacking in any current vitality (by contrast

384

Where is the Glory?

*

religious feeling in Ethiopia continues to be massively

focussed upon the belief that the relic is indeed there).
All this makes the Ethiopian case look more and more

credible. Nevertheless the Jewish ‘alternatives’ cannot be

dismissed out of hand simply because they seem to be a bit
flimsy.

ACTION: find out whether any archaeologists have
excavated at Mount Nebo, or in and around the

T emple

Mount - which are the only two locations proposed by the
Jews as the last resting place of the Ark.
wrote that note in my hotel room in Jerusalem on the night of
Saturday 6 October 1990. Two days later, on the morning of
Monday 8 October, I attempted to go back to take a second look
I

at the Temple Mount, and to visit some excavations that I knew

were in progress just outside the sacred precincts, perhaps a
hundred metres to the south of the Al-Aqsa Mosque. As I
approached, however - walking along the city wall from David’s
Tower to the Dung Gate - the sound of gunfire and of people
screaming forewarned me that something had gone seriously
wrohg.

Death on the Mount

What I had walked into subsequently came to be known as the
‘Temple Mount massacre’, and although it represented the
coming to a head of years of hatred between the Jews and the
Arabs of Jerusalem, its proximate cause was a demonstration by
an ultra-conservative Zionist group known as the ‘Temple

Mount Faithful’. The large banner that they carried as they
marched up to the Moghrabi Gate bore a Star of David and a
provocative inscription in Hebrew which summarized the key
issue for all concerned. That inscription read:

TEMPLE MOUNT - THE SYMBOL OF OUR
PEOPLE IS IN THE
HANDS OF OUR ENEMIES
What the demonstrators hoped to do was to enter the Temple

The Glory is departed from Israel

385

Mount itself through the Moghrabi Gate, march up to the Dome
of the Rock, and there lay the cornerstone for a proposed Third

Temple. This ambition, obviously, was packed with political
dynamite: since work began on the construction of the Dome of
the Rock in the seventh century ad, the whole of the Temple
Mount area had been a sacred site of immense importance to
Islam as well as to Judaism. Moreover, much to the chagrin of
groups like the ‘Temple Mount Faithful’, it is the Muslims who
are in possession of that site - which has contained no Jewish
place of worship since the destruction of the Second Temple by
the Romans in ad 70. Wishing to defend this status quo - against
what must have looked to them like a genuine threat - an
estimated five thousand militant Arabs had gathered inside the
walls of the Temple Mount and had armed themselves with
stones which they planned to hurl down at the approaching
Zionists.

The atmosphere was thus highly charged with emotion when
the Temple Mount Faithful began their march on Monday 8
October. And what added enormously to the tension was the
location of the Moghrabi Gate through which they intended to
pass. Opening out into the main compound less than fifty metres

from the front porch of the Al-Aqsa Mosque, this gate is built into
the southern end of the Western Wall - the exposed exterior of
which, known as the ‘Wailing Wall’, is today the single most
important Jewish holy place. Dating back to Second Temple
times, it is part of a retaining buttress built by Herod the Great in
the late first century bc. It escaped demolition by the Romans in
ad 70 (because, said the Midrash, the ‘Divine Presence’ hovered
over it) and, in later years, it became a potent symbol of the
nationalist aspirations of the Jewish people scattered during the

Even after the formation of the State of Israel it
continued to be administered by the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan and it was not until the Six Day War of 1967 that it was
finally incorporated into Israel proper. A large plaza was then
cleared in front of it and dedicated as a formal place of worship where, to this day, Jews from all over the world gather to lament
the fact that they have no Temple. To avoid a potentially
diaspora.

catastrophic confrontation with Islam, however, Jewish worship
in any form continues to be banned on the Temple Mount itself,

386

Where is the Glory?

»

which remains under the exclusive control of the Muslims of
107
Jerusalem and which directly overlooks the Wailing Wall.

By choosing to try to enter the Temple Mount through the
Moghrabi Gate, therefore, the Temple Mount Faithful were
asking for trouble. Access was in fact denied to them by the
Israeli police but, as they turned away, the five thousand Arabs

who had gathered inside began to rain down showers of stones not only on the heads of the zealots who had participated in the
march but also on the large numbers of other Jews then making
their devotions at the Wailing Wall. In this way something that
had started life as an apparently symbolic demonstration was very
rapidly transformed into a full-scale riot in which eleven Israeli

worshippers and eight policemen were hurt, and in which
twenty-one Arabs were shot dead and one hundred and twentyfive seriously injured.

By the time I arrived on the scene the worst of it was over: piles
of stones lay amongst pools of blood at the base of the Wailing
Wall; the wounded were being ferried away in ambulances; and

- dressed in riot gear and armed to the teeth appeared to be in full control. The Temple Mount itself, having
just'been stormed by the security forces, was off-limits. So too
the police

was the area of excavations immediately to the south that I had
intended to visit. Hundreds of angry and excited Jews, a few of
them proudly wearing blood-stained bandages, milled around in
a decidedly bellicose mood and soon a wild celebration began in
front of the Wailing Wall - although exactly why anyone should
have rejoiced over the brutal killing of a score of Arab youths was
something that I just could not understand.
Disgusted and depressed I eventually left the area, climbing up
the steps that led into the Jewish Quarter of the old city and
crossing into the Street of the Chain - along which I had walked a
few days previously on my first visit to the Temple Mount. Here I
saw further gratuitous violence as the police, carrying guns and
truncheons, rounded up Palestinians whom they suspected of
having been amongst the rioters. One young man, protesting his
innocence in a high-pitched and terrified voice, was repeatedly
punched and slapped; another ran at break-neck speed into a
narrow alley where he was cornered and beaten before being
dragged away.

The Glory is departed from Israel

387

Altogether, it had been a most unpleasant morning and it cast a
blight over the rest of my stay in Jerusalem. This was so not only

because of the human suffering that current events had now
directly linked to the place where the Ark had once stood, but
also because the Temple Mount and the excavations to the south
of it remained sealed off by the security forces until long after I
had left Israel. Despite these inauspicious omens, however, I was
determined not to waste any of the few days remaining to me in
that unhappy country, and I therefore continued with my
investigation as best I could.

Digging up sacred places

The immediate question that I was seeking to answer was the one
that I had jotted down in my notebook on the night of Saturday 6
October: had any efforts been made by archaeologists to dig at
the Temple Mount, or at Mount Nebo, in order to test the Jewish
traditions about the last resting place of the Ark?

began with the excavations that I had tried unsuccessfully to
visit on the morning of 8 October. Though I could not now gain
access to them, I was able to meet with some of the archaeologists
involved in them and to research their findings. What I learned
was that proper digging had started here in February 1968 some eight months after Israeli paratroopers had seized control
of Jerusalem in the Six Day War. And although all the
excavations were safely outside the sacred precincts of the
Temple Mount they had been a focus of controversy from the
very beginning. According to Meir Ben-Dov, Field Director of
the dig, early opposition came from members of the Higher
I

Muslim Council, who suspected a plot against their interests.
‘The excavations are not

in

fact a

scientific venture,’

they

complained, ‘their Zionist objective is rather to undermine the
southern wall of the Temple Mount, which is likewise the
southern wall of the Al-Aqsa Mosque, as a way of destroying the

mosque.’

108

To Ben-Dov’s surprise, Christians were at first almost equally
unhelpful. ‘They suspected’, he explained, ‘that the purpose of
the excavation was to lay the groundwork for building the Third

Temple and the whole business about an archaeological venture

388

Where is the Glory?

11

was just a cover for an invidious plot. All I can say is that until you
actually hear these rumours with your own ears, they sound like
the product of a demonic imagination. Yet more than once whether in jest or otherwise - people whose exceptional
intelligence and abilities as historians and archaeologists are
beyond question have come straight out and asked me: “Don’t
°9
you intend to reinstitute the Temple?”
The strongest opposition of all came from the Jewish religious
authorities - whose agreement to the dig was required by the
government before any work could begin. Professor Mazar of the
’ T

Archaeological Institute of the

Hebrew

University led the

negotiations with the Sephardi and Ashkenazi Chief Rabbis -

both of whom turned him down flat when he first approached

them in 1967:

The Sephardi Chief Rabbi, Rabbi Nissim, explained his
refusal by the fact that the area of our proposed dig was a

holy place. When asked to elucidate his answer further,

he intimated that we might prove that the Wailing Wall
was not in fact the western wall of the Temple Mount.
Resides, what point was there in taking the chance and
conducting a dig for scientific purposes when they were
irrelevant anyway? On the other hand the Ashkenazi
Chief Rabbi, Rabbi Unterman, agonized over halakhic
problems (questions of Jewish law). ‘What will happen,’
he mused aloud, ‘if, as a result of the archaeological
excavation, you find the Ark of the Covenant, which
Jewish tradition says is buried in the depths of the earth?’
‘That would be wonderful!’ Professor Mazar replied in all
innocence. But the venerable Rabbi told the learned
Professor that that was precisely what he feared. Since the
Children of Israel are not ‘pure’ from the viewpoint of
Jewish religious law, they are forbidden to touch the Ark
of the Covenant. Hence it is unthinkable to even consider
110
excavating until the Messiah comes!

The rabbi’s concern about the Ark was entirely orthodox. All
Jews have indeed been considered to be in a condition of ritual
impurity since the destruction of the Second Temple - a

The Glory is departed from Israel

389

condition that is only supposed to end with the coming of the true

Messiah.

111

Dogma of this sort thus represented a considerable

obstacle in the path of the archaeologists. Nevertheless they

managed in due course to win the rabbis over - and also to
overcome the objections of the representatives of the other two
monotheistic faiths descended from the Old Testament worship
of Yahweh. The dig went ahead. Moreover, despite the location
of the site outside the Temple Mount, a number of artefacts from
the days of the First Temple were recovered. Predictably,
though, no trace of the Ark of the Covenant was found, and the
vast bulk of the discoveries proved to be from the later Second
112
Temple, Muslim and Crusader periods.
In summary, therefore, I could see that Meir Ben-Dov’s
excavations had certainly not vindicated the Jewish traditions
about the concealment of the Ark. But neither had they
conclusively disproved those traditions. Only one thing could do
that, and that would be a thorough and painstaking dig on the

Temple Mount itself.
My own feeling, as the reader will recall, was that such a dig
had been carried out by the Knights Templar long centuries
before the discipline of archaeology was ever invented, and that
they, too, had failed to find the Ark. Nevertheless I still needed to

know whether any excavations had been undertaken in modern
times, and if so what had been found. I put these questions to Dr
Gabby Barkai, an archaeologist at Jerusalem’s Hebrew University who specializes in the First Temple period.
‘Since modern archaeology emerged,’ he told me bluntly, ‘no
effort has been made to dig inside the Temple Mount.’
‘Why?’ I asked.
‘Because it’s the ultimate sacred site. The Muslim authorities
are utterly opposed to any kind of scientific investigations being

undertaken there. It would be the worst kind of sacrilege from
their point of view. So the Temple Mount remains a riddle for
archaeology. Most of what we know about it is theoretical and
interpretive. Archaeologically we only have the findings of
Charles Warren. And Parker of course. He actually did dig inside
the Dome of the Rock - in 1910 if I remember correctly. But he
wasn’t an archaeologist. He was a lunatic. He was looking for the
Ark of the Covenant.’

39®

Where is the Glory?

»

tv

I

was not sure from

this

statement whether Barkai had

described Parker as a ‘lunatic’ because he had looked for the Ark;
or whether he had looked for the Ark because he had been a

whether his lunacy had been manifestly apparent
before he had started to dig inside the Dome of the Rock. This,
however, seemed like an excellent opportunity to refrain from
mentioning that I, too, was looking for the Ark. I therefore
confined myself to asking the archaeologist where I might find
out more about Parker - and about Charles Warren, the other
name he had mentioned.
A couple of days of archive research followed, during which I
learned that Warren had been a young lieutenant in Britain’s
Royal Engineers who had been commissioned by the Londonbased Palestine Exploration Fund to excavate the Temple
Mount in the year 1867. His work, however, had been confined
to much the same areas - outside and to the south of the sacred
precincts - that were to be more thoroughly investigated a
113
century later by Meir Ben-Dov and his colleagues.
The difference was that Warren had very actively sought
permission to excavate inside the Temple Mount as well. But all
his efforts had been rebuffed by the Ottoman Turks who then
administered Jerusalem. Moreover, on the one occasion when
he had managed to cut a tunnel northwards and to burrow
under the exterior walls, the sledgehammers and other tools
used by his labourers had disturbed the prayers of the faithful
going on above them in the Al-Aqsa Mosque. The result had
been a hail of stones, a riot, and orders from Izzet Pasha, the
governor of the city, that the dig should be suspended forthlunatic; or

with.

114

Despite such difficulties, Warren had refused to be discouraged

and had persuaded the Ottomans to let him go back to work
again. He had subsequently made several other clandestine
attempts to tunnel beneath the Temple Mount, where he had
planned to ‘locate and map all the ancient remains’ that he
might encounter. 115 But he was unable to realize this ambition
116
and reached only the foundations of the exterior walls.
Of
course he did not find the Ark of the Covenant - there was no
evidence that it had ever been his intention to look for it
anyway. His chief interest had been in the Second Temple

The Glory is departed from Israel

391

period and in this context he did make many discoveries of lasting
value to scholarship.

117

The same could not be said for Montague Brownslow Parker,
a son of the Earl of Morley, who had gone to Jerusalem in 1909
with the express intention of locating the Ark - and who had
made no contribution to scholarship whatsoever.
Parker’s expedition, later politely described by the renowned
British archaeologist Kathleen Kenyon as ‘exceptional by any
118

was the brainchild of a Finnish mystic named
Valter H. Juvelius, who in 1906 had presented a paper at a
Swedish university on the subject of the destruction of King
Solomon’s Temple by the Babylonians. Juvelius claimed to have
standards’,

acquired reliable information about the hiding place - inside the

Temple precincts - of ‘the gold-encrusted Ark of the Covenant’,
and he also said that a close study that he had made of the
had revealed the existence of a secret
underground passage running into the Temple Mount from
relevant biblical texts

some part of the city of Jerusalem. After poring over the reports
of Charles Warren’s excavations, he had convinced himself that
this secret passage would be found to the south of the Al-Aqsa

Mosque, in the area that Warren had already dug. Proffering the
lure of the US $200 million that he believed the Ark would be
worth if it could be recovered, Juvelius therefore sought investors
to finance an expedition which would locate and clear that
119

passage in order to gain access to the treasure.
His fund-raising efforts were not crowned with success until,
in London, he encountered Montague Brownslow Parker, then

aged thirty, and won his support for the venture. Milking his
contacts in the British aristocracy and abroad, including
members of Chicago’s wealthy Armour family, Parker very
quickly managed to raise the useful sum of $125,000. The
expedition accordingly went ahead and, by August 1909, had
established its headquarters on the Mount of Olives (which
directly overlooks the Temple Mount).
Digging began immediately on the site that Warren had
previously so painstakingly explored. Moreover Parker and
Juvelius were not deterred by the fact that their illustrious
predecessor had found nothing of enormous significance; on the
contrary they proceeded with optimism - since they had by now

392

Where is the Glory?

hired an Irish clairvoyant to assist them in their search for the

supposed ‘secret tunnel’.
Time passed. There were the predictable protests from the
faithful of all religious persuasions. And, as winter came, the
weather turned foul, flooding the excavations with rivers of mud.
Understandably, Parker was discouraged. He called a temporary
halt and did not resume the dig again until the summer of 1910.
Several months of frenetic activity then followed.

The secret

tunnel, however, still obstinately refused to reveal itself and, in

grown
decidedly more pronounced. By the spring of 19 11 Baron
Edmond de Rothschild, a Zionist and a member of the famous
international banking family, had made it his personal mission to
the meantime, opposition to the whole project had

prevent the potential desecration of the holiest site of Judaism,

and to this end had purchased a plot of land adjoining the
excavations from which he could directly threaten Parker.
The young British aristocrat was rattled by this development.
In April of 1911, therefore, he abandoned the search for the
tunnel and resorted to more desperate means. Jerusalem was
then still under the control of the Ottoman Turks and the
governor of the city, Amzey Bey Pasha, was not a man known for
his scrupulous honesty. A bribe of $25,000 secured his cooperation, and an additional though smaller sum persuaded
Sheikh Khalil - the hereditary guardian of the Dome of the Rock
- to admit Parker and his team to the sacred site and to turn a
blind eye to whatever they did there.

The work, for obvious reasons, was carried out at dead of
night. Disguised as Arabs, the treasure hunters spent a week

excavating the southern part of the Temple Mount close to the

Al-Aqsa Mosque - where Juvelius and the Irish clairvoyant both
believed that the Ark had been buried. These efforts proved
entirely fruitless, however, and in the small hours of the morning
of 18 April 19 1 1 Parker switched his attentions to the Dome of
the Rock, and to the legendary caverns supposed to lie far below
the Shetiyyah.

In those days the staircase leading down to the ‘Well of Souls’

had not yet been installed and Parker and his team had to lower
themselves and their equipment by means of ropes fastened to
the Shetiyyah itself. They then lit storm lanterns and began to

The Glory is departed from Israel

393

hack away at the floor of the grotto in the hope that they might
thus gain access to the lasting resting place of the Ark.
Disaster struck before they had even begun to establish

whether other hollows lay beneath them. Though Sheikh Khalil,
the hereditary guardian, had been bought off, another mosque
attendant unexpectedly appeared (the story goes that he had
decided to sleep on the Temple Mount because his own home
was full of guests). Hearing the sound of digging from the Dome
of the Rock he burst in, peered down into the Well of Souls and,
to his horror, saw a number of wild-eyed foreigners attacking the
holy ground with picks and shovels.
The reaction, on both sides, was dramatic. The shocked
mosque attendant uttered a piercing howl and fled screaming
into the night to rally the faithful. The Englishmen, wisely
realizing that the game was up, also beat a hasty retreat. Not even
bothering to return to their base camp, they left Jerusalem at once
and made for the port of Jaffa - where, conveniently, a motoryacht that they had chartered lay moored in the harbour. In this

way they managed to cheat the hysterical mob that arrived at the
Temple Mount only moments after their departure and that
carried off the unfortunate Sheikh Khalil to an unspeakable fate.

Before morning there were full-scale riots in Jerusalem and
Amzey Bey Pasha - who was rightly suspected of complicity had been assaulted and insulted. His response was to close the

Temple Mount and to issue orders that the treasure hunters
should be apprehended on their arrival at Jaffa. No doubt he took
this latter step in part to assuage his guilty conscience. However,
rumours had spread that Parker had found and abducted the Ark
of the Covenant, and Muslim and Jewish leaders were vociferous
in their demands that the sacred relic must not be allowed to
leave the country.

Alerted by telegraph, the Jaffa police and customs authorities
arrested the fugitives, impounded all their belongings and made

an extremely thorough search. They found nothing. Somewhat
nonplussed by this they then locked the baggage up but allowed
the Englishmen to row out to their yacht, in the salubrious
surroundings of which, it had been agreed, the interrogation
would continue. As soon as he and his colleagues were safely on
board, however, Parker ordered the crew to weigh anchor.

394

Where is the Glory?

A few weeks later he was back in England. He had failed to find
the lost Ark, but he had succeeded in losing the entire $i 25,000

with which investors in the United States and Britain had
120

‘The whole episode, and excavations/
Kathleen Kenyon concluded many years later, ‘did not redound
entrusted

him.

to the credit of British archaeology.'

121

British archaeologists, however, were not involved in the next

attempt to find the Ark, which took place in the 1920s and which
focussed on Mount Nebo where, according to the book of

Maccabees, the prophet Jeremiah had concealed the sacred relic
just before the destruction of Solomon’s Temple.
The prime mover on this occasion was an eccentric American
explorer who liked to dress up in flowing Arab robes and who,
though male, went by the curious name of Antonia Frederick
Futterer. After thoroughly surveying Mount Nebo (and also its

neighbouring peak xMount Pisgah) he claimed - with truly
awe-inspiring originality - to have found ... a secret passage.
This passage was blocked by a wall of some sort and Futterer did
not attempt to break it down. When he examined it by flashlight,
however, he discovered ... an ancient inscription, which he
faithfully copied and carried back to Jerusalem. There he made
contact with a ‘scholar’ at the Hebrew University who helpfully
deciphered the hieroglyphs for him. The message read:

HEREIN LIES THE GOLDEN ARK OF THE

COVENANT
Unfortunately Futterer would not name the scholar who had

produced this translation; nor, in the furore that followed, did
anyone step forward to claim that honour; nor was Futterer
subsequently able to produce the copy that he claimed to have
made of the inscription; nor did he ever go back to Mount Nebo
122
to retrieve the Ark from its alleged secret passage.
Half a century later, however, a new champion emerged to
pick up the baton that Futterer had dropped. That champion,
too, was an American explorer, Tom Crotser by name, whose
previous ‘discoveries’ had included the Tower of Babel, Noah’s
Ark, and the City of Adam. In 1981, by rather circuitous means,
this gentleman acquired some papers that Futterer had left,

The Glory is departed from Israel

395

papers which apparently included a sketch of the walled-up
secret passage on Mount Nebo where the Ark of the Covenant

was supposed to lie buried. 123

Mount Nebo is located just inside the border of the modern
state of Jordan and it was to that country that Crotser now flew,
together with a group of zealous colleagues from an organization

known as the ‘Institute for Restoring History International’
(headquarters: Winfield, Kansas).

124

Their mission, of course,

was to salvage the Ark. To this end they spent four days sleeping
rough on Mount Nebo - much to the consternation of the
Franciscans of Terra Santa who own the summit, who guard the
Byzantine church that was erected there over the supposed burial
place of Moses, and who, for the past several decades, have
conducted careful and professional archaeological excavations in
the area.

125

Needless to say, the Franciscans have never found the Ark,
and nor did Crotser - at least not on Mount Nebo. After finishing
there, however, he and his team moved on to neighbouring
Mount Pisgah (which Futterer had also visited). On that peak
they stumbled upon a gully which they were confident would give

th$m access to the ‘secret passage’ identified in Futterer’s sketch.
The fact that part of the floor of the gully was blocked by a
length of tin sheeting only added to their excitement.

On the

night of 3 1 October 1981 they removed this flimsy obstacle and,

sure enough, a passage stretched ahead of them. They followed
the passage, which they said was about four feet wide and seven
feet high, for a distance of some six hundred feet into the bowels

of the earth. There they came across a wall exactly like the one
that Futterer had described and, without further ado, they broke
it

down.

Beyond it was a rock-hewn crypt measuring roughly seven feet
by seven feet and containing, according to Crotser, a goldcovered rectangular chest measuring sixty-two inches long,
thirty-seven inches wide and thirty-seven inches high. Beside it,
apparently, were carrying poles exactly matching the biblical
description of the carrying poles of the Ark of the Covenant. And
off to one side lay cloth-wrapped packages which Crotser
assumed to be the cherubim that, in times gone by, had been
mounted upon the mercy seat.

396

Where is the Glory?

The Americans were certain that they had found the sacred
relic. They did not remove it; neither did they touch it or open it;
using flash-guns, however, they did take colour photographs of it.

Then they left Jordan and returned to the USA where they
immediately informed the press agency UPI about their discovery. The result was an internationally syndicated news story
4

which, according to the journalist responsible, got more play than

anything I wrote in my life.’

126

So, had the Ark really been found? Obviously the photographs

taken in the crypt were crucial evidence that might vindicate the
sensational claim that the Americans had

made - if suitably

qualified biblical archaeologists were given the opportunity to

study them. It was therefore difficult to understand why Crotser
steadfastly refused to release these pictures to anyone. Few were

convinced by his argument that God had instructed him to give
them only to the London banker David Rothschild who, he said,
was a direct descendant of Jesus Christ and had been chosen by
the Lord to build the Third Temple -- in which the Ark of the
Covenant, retrieved from its hiding place, would occupy centre
stage.

127

A fhember of the same international banking family that had
opposed Montague Parker’s excavations at the Temple Mount in
1910, Rothschild icily declined to take delivery of the photographs - which Crotser still keeps in his home in Winfield,

Kansas, which he still refuses to release, but which he will show
to selected visitors.

In 1982, one such visitor was the respected archaeologist
Siegfried H. Horn, a specialist on the Mount Nebo area and the

author of more than a dozen scholarly books.

128

He spent some

time closely examining Crotser’s photographs which, unfortunately,

seemed to have come out of the development process

rather badly:
All but two showed absolutely nothing. Of the two that

registered images, one is fuzzy but does depict a chamber

with a yellow box in the centre. The other slide is quite

good and gives a clear view of the front of the box. 129
Immediately after leaving Crotser’s house, Horn (who is an

The Glory is departed from Israel

397

accomplished draughtsman) made a sketch of the box as he had
observed it in the slide. Some parts of the yellow metal overlay
appeared to him to be brass, not gold, and, moreover, were
stamped with a diamond pattern that looked machine -worked.
More damning by far, however, was the fact that a nail with a
modern style of head could be seen protruding out of the upper
I3
right corner of the front of the box. ° Horn concluded:

do not know what the object is but the pictures
convinced me that it is not an ancient artefact but of
modern fabrication with machine-produced decorative
131
strips and an underlying metal sheet.
I

From fictions to fact
After working

my way steadily through the archaeological

records in Jerusalem I was unable to trace any further references
to expeditions that had sought to test the Judaic traditions about

the last resting place of the Ark of the Covenant. And the scholars

whom I talked to confirmed that the field was indeed a limited
one: Charles Warren, and later Meir Ben-Dov and his team, had

dug in the vicinity of the Temple Mount (though they were not
looking for the Ark); Montague Brownslow Parker - not an
archaeologist but a ‘lunatic’, as Gabby Barkai had described him
- had dug inside the Temple Mount but had not found anything;
Antonia Frederick Futterer had found, but not explored, a secret
passage on Mount Nebo which he had believed to contain the
Ark; and lastly Tom Crotser claimed to have found the Ark itself
in that same passage - which, however, seemed to have migrated
from Mount Nebo to Mount Pisgah in the fifty years since
Futterer’s visit.

And that was it. That, as the saying goes, was the boiling lot with the sole exception of my own activities. And what was I
doing? Well I was looking for the Ark, too, of course - a venture in

which, I must confess, I was disconcerted to discover that I had
been preceded only by Messianic visionaries and harebrained
cranks.

My saving grace,

supposed, was that I had not the slightest
interest in the building of the Third Temple and that I did not
I

39 «

Where is the Glory?

believe that the Ark had been buried beneath the Dome of the

Rock or in Mounts Nebo or Pisgah. I realized that it would be
practically impossible to prove that those locations concealed no

further secrets; but I was now as satisfied as I ever would be that

the lost relic had not gone to any of the places indicated in the

Judaic traditions, that it had not been taken by the Egyptians or
the Babylonians, and that it had not been destroyed either.
Its

disappearance, therefore, looked

more and more like a

genuinely baffling mystery - ‘one of the great mysteries of the
Bible’ as Richard Elliott Friedman, Professor of Hebrew and

Comparative Religion at the University of California, had once
132
described it.
All my work in 1989 and 1990 had strengthened
my conviction that the solution to that mystery must lie in
And yet
the one problem that I had not
Ethiopia. And yet
confronted at all, at any stage of my research, was that Ethiopia’s
claim to possess the Ark seemed to rest on foundations that were
every bit as flimsy as the Apocalypse of Baruch or the book of
Maccabees.
To put matters plainly, I was beginning to feel that the Kebra
Nagasfs bold assertions were not sufficiently reliable as a historical
.

.

.

.

.

.

witness to justify a trip to the sacred city of Axum - a trip during

which I would have to put my own life at risk. The insistence that
the Queen of Sheba had been an Ethiopian and the linked
pretence that she had borne a son to King Solomon who, in due
course, had abducted the Ark from Jerusalem, had more the ring
of preposterous fictions than of sober truths. To be sure, I had
uncovered a great deal of evidence in Ethiopia - persuasive
evidence - which did lend considerable support to the notion that
the relic might really lie in the sanctuary chapel in Axum. And
now I had satisfied myself that no other location could hope to
present a more convincing case. That, however, was less a
reflection of the strength of the Kebra Nagasfs account of how
the Ark had got to Ethiopia than of the weakness of the
alternatives.

Before finally committing myself to going to Axum, therefore,
I felt

that I needed to find a more convincing explanation than

that offered in the Kebra Nagast of how ‘the most important object
in the world in the Biblical view’

133

could possibly have ended up

in the heart of Africa. By the time that I finally left Jerusalem in

The Glory is departed from Israel

399

mid-October 1990 I had found that explanation - as I shall
recount in the next chapter.

Chapter 15

Hidden History

had

myself that
Ethiopia’s claim to be the last resting place of the lost Ark was not
challenged by any particularly strong or striking alternative. That
finding, however, had not been the only outcome of my research.
As I wrote in my notebook:
After a painstaking investigation,

I

satisfied

No one who has followed the story of the Ark from its
construction at the foot of Mount Sinai until the moment

of its deposition in Solomon’s Temple would seriously
dispute that it was an object of immense importance to
the Jewish people. And yet the fact is that the Scriptures

- so dominated by the presence of the relic before
Solomon - seem to forget about it entirely after him. Its
loss is formally recognized at the time of the construction

of the Second Temple. The great mystery, however, to

quote the words of Professor Richard Friedman, is that:
‘There is no report that the Ark was carried away or
destroyed
There is not even any comment such as
.

.

.

“And then the Ark disappeared, and we do not know
what happened to it,” or “And no one knows where it is
to this day.” The most important object in the world, in
the biblical view, simply ceases to be in the story .’

1

Reviewing the evidence I had to ask myself: Why should this be?
Why should the compilers of the Old Testament have allowed
the Ark to vanish from the sacred texts - not with a bang, as one
might have expected, but with a whimper?
The Kebra Nagast I knew, did offer a clear answer to exactly
,

Hidden History

401

this question. In Chapter 62 it described Solomon’s grief after he

had discovered that his son Menelik had abducted the relic from
the Temple and carried it off to Ethiopia. When he had had time
to collect his thoughts, however, the king turned to the elders of
Israel - who were likewise loudly lamenting the loss of the Ark -

and warned them to desist:
Cease ye, so that the uncircumcised people may not boast
themselves over us and may not say unto us, ‘Their glory
is taken away, and God hath forsaken them.’ Reveal ye
not anything else to alien folk

And

.

.

.

.

.

.

the elders of Israel made answer and said unto

him, ‘May thy good pleasure be done, and the good
pleasure of the Lord God! As for us, none of us will
transgress thy word, and we will not inform any other

people that the Ark hath been taken away from us.’ And
they established this covenant in the House of God - the
elders of Israel with their King Solomon unto this day.

2

In other words, if the Kebra Nagast was to believed, there had

been a massive cover-up. The Ark had been removed to Ethiopia
during the lifetime of Solomon himself; all information about this
tragic loss had, however, been suppressed, which was why no
mention was made of it in the Scriptures.
There was, I thought, much to recommend this argument. It

made a great deal of sense to suppose that the Jewish king would
indeed have sought to keep from the common herd any
knowledge of the loss of the Ark. But at the same time I had
serious problems with some other aspects of the Kebra Nagast
account - notably those concerning the Queen of Sheba’s
Ethiopian credentials, her alleged love affair with Solomon, the
birth of their son Menelik, the notion that the latter had brought
the Ark to Ethiopia, and the implication that this had happened in
the tenth century bc:
1

There appeared to be no justification for the Kebra
Nagasfs audacious claim that the Queen of Sheba had
been an Ethiopian woman. It was not absolutely
impossible that she might have been (in his Antiquities of

402

Where is the Glory?
theJews, for example, Flavius Josephus had described her

as ‘the queen of Egypt and Ethiopia’

3
).

On balance,

however, historical research did not suggest that she had
started her journey in the Abyssinian highlands when, as
the Bible put it, she had travelled to ‘Jerusalem with a very
great train, with camels that bare spices, and very much
gold, and precious stones.’ 4

2 If the evidence linking the Queen of Sheba to Ethiopia

was thin, then evidence for the very existence of her son
Menelik was even thinner. I had known for some time
that historians considered the supposed founder of
Ethiopia’s ‘Solomonic’ dynasty to be a purely legendary
figure - and I had learnt nothing in two years of research
to persuade me that they were mistaken about this rather

crucial point.
3 In particular it seemed to be inconceivable that an
advanced culture and a centralized monarchy of the kind

described in the KebraNagast could have existed in the

Abyssinian mountains in the tenth century bc. ‘At the
time when Solomon was reigning,’ as E. A. Wallis

"Budge had put it, ‘the natives of the country which we
now call Abyssinia were savages.’ 5 This was the orthodox
view and my research had uncovered nothing that would
enable me to refute it.

4 Even more fatal to any kind of literal acceptance of the
KebraNagast was the evidence that I myself had collected
in Ethiopia. Of all the many traditions that I had

encountered in that country, by far the purest and most
convincing had indicated that the Ark of the Covenant
had been brought first of all to Lake Tana, where it had
been concealed on the island of Tana Kirkos. Memhir
Fisseha, the priest whom I had interviewed there (see

Chapter 9), had told me that the relic had remained on
the island for eight hundred years before it had finally
been taken to Axum at the time of Ethiopia’s conversion
to Christianity. Since that conversion had occurred
around ad 330, the implication of the strong folk
memory preserved on Tana Kirkos was that the Ark must
have arrived in Ethiopia in 470 bc or thereabouts - in

.

Hidden History

403

other words about five hundred years after Solomon,

Menelik and the Queen of Sheba.
These, of course, were not the only difficulties that I had with the
account given in the Kebra Nagast. Something else that bothered
me greatly, for example, was the practical question of how
Menelik and his companions could possibly have removed so
precious and so heavy an object as the Ark from the Temple of
Solomon without attracting the attention of the zealous Levites
who guarded the Holy of Holies.
And I had several other reservations too, all of which, together
with those listed above, had forced me to agree with the academic
experts that the Kebra Nagast was indeed a remarkable document
but that it had to be taken with a very large pinch of salt. This,
however, did not make me want to dismiss the great epic entirely.

On the contrary, in common with many other legends, I felt that
there was every possibility that its elaborate fictional superstructure might have

been erected above

foundation of

a solid

historical truth. In short, while reluctantly rejecting the lovely

Solomon and Sheba, and the
cheeky suggestion that the Ark had been stolen from the Temple
idea of the romance between

by their son Menelik, I saw no reason to conclude that the relic
might not have been brought to Ethiopia by some other means,
thus creating an enigma which the Kebra Nagast had much later
gone on to explain in its own peculiarly original and colourful
way. Indeed, I was satisfied that the social and cultural evidence
in Ethiopia itself very strongly supported that country’s claim to

be the last resting place of the Ark. And, since I now also knew
that no other country or place had a stronger claim, I was more
inclined than ever to believe that the Ark really was there.
Nevertheless, the final pieces of the jigsaw puzzle remained to
be put in place. If the Queen of Sheba had not been Solomon’s
lover, and if she had never borne him a son called Menelik as the
legends claimed, then who in fact had brought the Ark to
Ethiopia - and when, and under what circumstances?

The lady doth protest too much, methinks

.

.

In my attempt to answer these questions I kept at the forefront of

404

Where is the Glory?

my mind the very acceptable notion, put forward in the Kebra
Nagast that the removal of the Ark of the Covenant from the
Holy of Holies could have been the subject of a cover-up - of a
conspiracy of silence involving the priestly elite and the king. But,
,

if not Solomon, then which king?

Part of the definition of a ‘cover-up

5
,

of course, is that it should

be difficult to detect. I therefore did not expect that evidence of
the sort that I was seeking would be easily extracted from the Old
Testament. That great and complex book had guarded its secrets
well for more than two thousand years and there was no reason to
suppose that it would simply surrender them to me now.
I began by typing up every single mention of the Ark of the
Covenant that had ever appeared in the Bible. Even with access
to the best scholarship on the subject it was a hard task to track
them all down, and when I had finished I had before me a
document more than fifty pages long. Strikingly and significantly,
only the last page contained references that related to the period
after Solomon’s death; all the others concerned themselves with
the story of the Ark during the wanderings in the wilderness, the
conquest of the Promised Land, the reign of King David, and the
reign of King Solomon himself.
The Bible, as I was well aware, contains a hotch-potch of
material produced by several different schools of scribes over
hundreds of years. Many of the references to the Ark, I knew,
were very old indeed; but others were relatively late. None of
those in the first book of Kings, for example, were codified before
6
the reign ofjosiah (640-609 bc ). This meant that the account
of the Ark’s installation in Solomon’s Temple in 1 Kings 8,
although undoubtedly based on ancient oral and written
traditions, had been the work of the priests who had lived long
after the event. And exactly the same observation applied to all

the relevant references in the book of Deuteronomy, since this,
too, was a late document that dated only from the time of King

Josiah. 7 Therefore, if the Ark had been secretly removed from

the Holy of Holies before the destruction of the Temple in 587
bc, it seemed to me probable that the traces of any cover-up

would be found in Kings and in Deuteronomy - if they were to be
found anywhere - for in compiling these books the scribes would
have had an opportunity to tamper with the facts in order to

Hidden History

405

create the desired impression that ‘the glory’ had not departed

from Israel,

On close examination of the texts I came across a passage in
Chapter 8 of the first book of Kings that seemed somehow out of
character, that jarred in a curious

way with the rest of the

ceremony that had surrounded the
deposition of the Ark in the Holy of Holies. That passage read as
description of the great

follows:

The priests brought in the Ark of the Covenant of the
Lord to its place, the inner shrine of the house, the Most
Holy Place, beneath the wings of the cherubim. The
cherubim spread their wings over the place of the Ark;
they formed a screen above the Ark and its poles. The
poles projected and their ends could be seen from the

Holy Place immediately in front of the inner shrine, but
from nowhere else outside; they are there to this day?

Why, I wondered, had the biblical scribe responsible for this
passage found it necessary to assert that the carrying poles of the

Ark could, in his day, still be seen projecting out of the inner
shrine? What would have been the point of such a statement
unless the relic had in fact not been there at the time that these
words were written (approximately 610 bc according to the
authorities 9 )? The oddly defensive tone had, I thought, the ring

of one of those emphatic declarations of innocence that guilty
parties sometimes make in order to obscure the truth. In short,

famous lady in Shakespeare’s Hamlet the author of 1
10
Kings 8 had aroused my suspicions by ‘protesting too much’.
I was pleased to discover that I was not alone in this intuition.
In 1928 the leading biblical scholar Julian Morgenstern had also
been struck by the strangeness of the words ‘they are there to this
day’. His conclusion, in an erudite paper published in the
Hebrew Union College Annual, was that the scribe must have
like the

,

intended
to convince his readers that the staves of the Ark, and

therefore, of course, the Ark itself, were present in the

innermost part of the Temple, even though they could

1

406

Where is the Glory?

not be seen by the people at large, or, for that matter, by

anyone other than the High Priest, when he entered the
The fact that
Holy of Holies once a year, on Yom Kippur
[the scribe] seems to have felt compelled to insist in this
manner that the Ark was still present in the Temple in his
indicates that he must have had to contend with a
day
prevalent and persistent doubt of this, a doubt founded in all
.

.

.

.

.

.

likelihood upon actual fact.

1

Nor was this all. The very next verse of the same chapter of the
book of Kings insisted:

There was nothing in the Ark except the two stone tablets
the tablets of the covenant
Moses had placed in it
which Yahweh had made with the Israelites when they
12
came out of the land of Egypt; they are still there today
.

.

.

.

And the book of Deuteronomy, written at the same time, said
almost exactly the same thing - the tablets of stone were placed in
13
the Ark by Moses, ‘and there they have remained ever since’.

Morgenstern’s analysis of these words was that they ‘must
have been inserted for some particular purpose’. 14 And, after
referring to the original Hebrew text, he concluded that this
purpose could only have been to provide
a direct and positive affirmation, almost

would seem in
the face of a doubt or question that the tablets of the Ten
,

it

,

,

Commandments were still present in the Ark in the days
... of the author of this verse.

15

Deuteronomy and the first book of Kings had, of course, dealt
with widely different periods of Israelite history. Crucially,

however - and the point is so important that it will bear repetition
- they had both been compiled at the same time. That time, as I
had already established, had been the reign of King Josiah, i.e.
from 640 to 609 bc.
My curiosity aroused, I turned to the typescript in which I had
set down all the biblical references to the Ark. I remembered that

there were very few in the whole of the Old Testament which

Hidden History
related to the period

after the

death of Solomon.

407

Now I

discovered that there were in fact only two: one had been written

during Josiah’s reign; the other quoted the words of Josiah
himself; and both appeared on the last page of my document.

Josiah and Jeremiah

had already come across Josiah in my research. When I had
been investigating the antiquity of the religious customs of the
black Jews of Ethiopia I had learned that it had been during his
reign that the institution of sacrifice had finally and conclusively
been centralized on Jerusalem and banned in all other locations
(see Chapter 6). Since the Falashas themselves still practised
sacrifice in Ethiopia (having altars in all their villages), I had
concluded in my notebook that their ancestors
I

must have been converted to Judaism at a time when it
was still acceptable for those far away from the
centralized national sanctuary to practise local sacrifice.

This would suggest that the conversion took place before
King Josiah’s ban - i.e. no later than the seventh century
BC.

My research had moved on into areas that

had not even
dreamt of when I had originally written those words in 1989, and
now I was confronted by a peculiarly interesting set of circumstances. Sitting in my hotel room in Jerusalem in October 1990 I
therefore opened my notebook again and listed the following
I

points:

• In 1 Kings 8 and Deuteronomy there are signs of
efforts being made to convince people that the Ark was
still in its place in the Temple; this looks like an
attempt to cover up the truth - i.e. that the relic was in
fact no longer there.
• The relevant passages were written in the time of King
Josiah.

• From this I conclude that the Ark may have been removed
from the Temple during Josiah’s reign; it is more likely

-

408

Where is the Glory?
by far, however, that its loss was discovered then but that
it had actually occurred somewhat earlier. Why? Because
Josiah was a zealous reformer who sought to emphasize
the paramount importance of the Temple in Jerusalem
and because the raison d'etre of the Temple was as ‘an
house of rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord It
is virtually inconceivable that such a monarch would have
permitted the ultimate symbol ofJudaism, the sign and
the seal of Yahweh’s presence on earth, to be taken out of
5

.

the Holy of Holies. The logical deduction, therefore, is
that the Ark must have been spirited away before Josiah

came to power - i.e. before 640 bc.
• The religious customs of the Falashas include local
sacrifice, a practice that was only conclusively banned
during Josiah’s reign. On the basis of this and other data it
has been my opinion for some time that the ancestors of the
Falashas must have migrated to Ethiopia before 640 bc.
• Surely these matters cannot be unconnected?

The chain of evidence looked convincing: the Ark was removed
from the Temple before 640 bc; the ancestors of the Falashas
migrated to Ethiopia before 640 bc; was it therefore not
reasonable to assure that the ancestors of the Falashas might
have taken the Ark with them?
This struck me as a fairly logical hypothesis. It did not,
however, establish when before 640 bc the supposed migration
from Jerusalem had taken place. Neither did it entirely rule out
the possibility that the Ark could have been removed during
Josiah’s reign. Given the known religious integrity and
traditionalism of that monarch the latter notion looked like a very

long shot indeed. Nevertheless it had to be considered - if only
because, as I already knew (see previous chapter), certain Jewish

legends had furnished him with a valid motive. In the last years of
his reign, those legends said, he had foreseen the destruction of

the Temple by the Babylonians and had hidden ‘the Holy Ark

appurtenances in order to guard them against
16
desecration at the hands of the enemy.’
Moreover he was
believed - possibly by miraculous means - to have concealed the

and

all

its

relic ‘in its own place’.

17

Hidden History

409

was now as satisfied as I ever would be that the Ark had not
been buried in the Temple Mount - or anywhere else in the Holy
Land. Nevertheless I still had to ask myself: was this possible?
Could Josiah really have foreseen the fate of the Temple and
I

taken steps to safeguard the Ark?

looked into this scenario but concluded that, unless the
Jewish king had possessed a truly remarkable gift of prescience,
there was just no way that he could have predicted the events of
598-587 bc He died in 609 bc five years before NebuchadI

.

,

nezzar - the author of Jerusalem’s destruction - inherited the
18

Babylonian throne. Moreover, Nebuchadnezzar’s predecessor
Nabopolassar had shown little or no military interest in Israel and
had concentrated instead on wars with Assyria and Egypt. 19

The historical background to Josiah’s reign therefore did not
support the theory that he might have concealed the Ark of the

Covenant. More damning by far, however, was the very last
mention of the sacred relic in the Old Testament, which cropped
up in a passage in the second book of Chronicles - a passage that
described Josiah’s campaign to restore traditional values to

Temple worship:
Josiah removed all the abominations throughout the
territories belonging to the sons of Israel

the priests in their charges, and

.

.

.

.

.

.

And he set

said unto the Levites

that taught all Israel, which were holy unto the Lord,

‘

Put
the Holy Ark in the house which Solomon the son ofDavid
king ofIsrael did build; it shall not be a burden upon your
shoulders .’

2°

was immediately obvious to me that these few short verses,
particularly the words emphasized in italics above, were of vital
importance to my quest. Why? Quite simply because Josiah would
have had no need to ask the Levites to put the Ark in the Temple if it
had already been there. Two inescapable conclusions emerged
from this: (1) The king himself could not have been responsible for
the removal of the relic because he plainly thought that it had been
taken by its traditional bearers, the Levites; and (2) the date of the
Ark’s disappearance from the Temple could now be fixed to some
time before Josiah had made this little speech.
It

4io

Where is the Glory?

And when exactly had that speech been made? Happily the
book of Chronicles provided

a very precise

answer

question: 'in the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah’

other words in 622 bc

22
.

to

this

21

- in

What Chronicles did not do, however,

was give any indication at all that the Levites had complied with
the king’s order; indeed, far from the colourful ceremony that
one might have expected to accompany any reinstallation of the
Ark in the Temple, there was no follow-up - either in this book
or in any other part of the Bible - to Josiah’s strange command.

On the contrary, it was clear that his words had fallen on deaf ears
or on the ears of people who were not in a position to obey them.
Chronologically, as I have already observed, Josiah’s speech

contained the last reference to the Ark of the Covenant in the

whole of the Old Testament. I now turned to examine the
penultimate reference. This occurred in the book ofjeremiah, in
a chapter composed by Jeremiah himself around the year 626
bc 23 and took the form of a prophetic utterance addressed to the
,

people ofJerusalem:

And when you have increased and become many in the
land, then - it is Yahweh who speaks - no one will ever say
Where is the Ark of the Covenant of Yahweh?' There
will be no thought of it, no memory of it, no regret for it, no
making of another When that time comes, Jerusalem shall
be called: 'The throne of Yahweh’; all nations will gather
there in the name of Yahweh and will no longer follow
24
the dictates of their own stubborn hearts.
again

'

.

.

Like Josiah, I knew that Jeremiah had been credited in certain

Jewish legends - and in the apocryphal book of Maccabees - with
hiding the Ark (in his case on Mount Nebo immediately before
the destruction of the Temple - see previous chapter). The
words quoted above, however, had infinitely greater value as
historical testimony than the legends or the Apocrypha because
they had been spoken at a known date by a real person, Jeremiah
25
himself.
Moreover, in the context of everything else that I had
learned, there could be no doubt about the meaning of these
words, or about their wider implications. To put matters as
plainly as possible, they corroborated the impression given in

1

Hidden History

41

Josiah’s speech that the Ark was no longer in the Temple by 622

bc - and they pushed back to at least 626 bc the likely date at
which it had gone missing. I say at least to 626 bc because that, as
noted above, was the year in which Jeremiah had uttered his
prophecy. It was clear, however, that in doing so he had been
responding, at least in part, to some prevalent and probably by
then quite long-established anguish over the loss of the Ark. This
was the only possible explanation for the verse which stated: And
when you have increased and become many in the land, then
no one will ever say again “Where is the Ark of the Covenant of
Yahweh?” Obviously if people had not been saying such things
in 626 bc, and for some considerable while beforehand, then
there would have been no need for Jeremiah to have made such a
4

.

.

.

’

remark.
In reaching this judgment I was pleased to discover that I had
the full support of one of the world's leading biblical scholars,

Professor Menahem Haran of Jerusalem's Hebrew University.
In his authoritative treatise on Temples and Temple Service in

Ancient Israel, this learned academic had considered the passage
in question and had reached the following conclusion:

This verse follows upon words of consolation and itself
contains a message of consolation and mercy. What the
prophet promises here is that in the good days to come
there will no longer be any need for the Ark - implying
that its absence should no longer cause any grief. These
words would, of course, be devoid of any significance if
been inside the Temple at the
the Ark [had] still
.

time.

.

.

26

On this basis I felt that it was entirely safe to conclude that I
would have to peer back into the period before 626 bc if I was to
have any prospect of establishing the actual date on which the
Ark had disappeared. Moreover I did not think that it would be at
all fruitful

to devote time to a close study of the earlier years of

King Josiah's reign - i.e. from 626 bc back to 640 bc. As I
already knew, that monarch had sought unsuccessfully to have
the relic reinstalled in the Temple in 622 bc; it was therefore
hardly likely that he would have been responsible for its removal

412

Where is the Glory?

,

rv

The guilty party must have been one of his
predecessors - any one, in fact, of the fifteen kings who had ruled
in the first place.

in Jerusalem since Solomon had placed the Ark in the Holy of

Holies in 955 bc

27
.

Search and find
was looking at a period of 315 years - from 955 bc down to
Josiah’s accession to the throne in 640 bc. In this time Jerusalem
and the Temple had been at the centre of an enormously
complex series of events. And although these events were
described at great length in several books of the Bible, the Ark of
the Covenant had not been mentioned once: between Solomon
and Josiah, as I had previously established, the sacred relic had
been enshrouded in a thick blanket of silence.
I

modern research tool to find out just how thick
that ancient blanket really was. On the desk in my hotel room in
Jerusalem was a computerized edition of the King James
I resorted to a

Authorized Version of the Bible that I had brought with me from
28
England.
For the period that I was now interested in I knew
that it would be useless to run a search-and-find programme on
the words ‘Ark’ or ‘Ark of the Covenant’ or ‘Ark of God’ or ‘Holy
Ark’ or any similar epithets: they simply did not appear. I did,
however, have one other option, and that was to look for phrases
that had been regularly associated with the Ark earlier in the
Scriptures, and also for reports of afflictions of the type routinely
caused by the Ark.
In the realm of afflictions I settled on the word ‘leprous’,
because, in Chapter 12 of the book of Numbers Moses had
punished Miriam for criticizing his authority by using the powers
of the Ark to make her ‘leprous’. 29 In the realm of phrases I chose
‘between the cherubims’, because the God of Israel had been
believed to dwell ‘between the cherubims’ mounted on the Ark’s
golden lid and because, prior to the reign of Solomon, this
formula had always been used in connection with the Ark and
°
never in any other way. 3
I started by running the word ‘leprous’. My electronic Bible of
course picked it up in Chapter 1 2 of the book of Numbers, which
described what happened to Miriam. After that it occurred only

Hidden History

413

twice more in the whole of the Scriptures: in the second book of

Kings, where there was a plainly irrelevant reference to ‘four
leprous men’ sitting by a gate in the northern Israelite city of

Samaria; 31 and in the second book of Chronicles - where it

cropped up in a passage that looked very relevant indeed.
That passage, in 2 Chronicles 26, described how King Uzziah
- who had ruled Jerusalem from 781 to 740 bc 32 - ‘transgressed
against the Lord his God, and went into the Temple of the Lord
33
At once the High
to burn incense upon the altar of incense.’
Priest Azariah and some of his assistants rushed in after the
monarch hoping to dissuade him from committing this act of
sacrilege at the very entrance to the Holy of Holies:

Then Uzziah was wroth, and had a censer in his hand to
burn incense: and while he was wroth with the priests, the
leprosy even rose up in his forehead before the priests in
the house of the Lord, from beside the incense altar. 34

seemed that Uzziah had not actually entered the Holy of Holies
(although the text was somewhat ambiguous on this point), but he
had certainly stood very close to it. Moreover he had been
holding a metal incense burner in his hand - and that, since the
two sons of Aaron had been struck down at the foot of Mount
Sinai for offering ‘strange fire before the Lord’, 35 had always
been a dangerous thing to do within striking distance of the
It

Ark.

36

On this basis, therefore, I felt that there was at least a prima
concluding that the ‘leprous’ sores on Uzziah’s
forehead had been caused by exposure to the Ark (and I was later
to discover that others had thought so too - an illustration from
an eighteenth-century English Bible reproduced in the present
work clearly shows the unfortunate king standing beside the Ark

facie case for

at the very moment that he is ‘smitten’).

If the monarch’s affliction was caused by the Ark [I wrote
in my notebook] then this means that it was still present
in the Holy of Holies in 740 bc (Uzziah’s reign ended in

that year as a result of what had happened to him

37
).

This

narrows the field enormously, since the implication is that

414

Where is the Glory?

,

the relic could only have been removed in the century

between that date and the beginning ofjosiah’s reign - i.e.
at some point between 740 bc and 640 bc.

Of course I was well aware that the Uzziah incident had little
value as historical evidence: it was a tantalizing hint - a clue if you
like - but it was quite impermissible to conclude from it that the

Ark had definitely still been in the Temple in 740 bc. I needed
something stronger if I was to be satisfied that that had indeed
been the case - and I found what I was looking for when I ran a
search for the phrase ‘between the cherubims’.

As noted above, in biblical passages referring to the period
before the reign of Solomon, these words had been used
exclusively in connection with the Ark, and in no other way
whatsoever. Although it would be necessary to keep a close eye
on the context, I therefore felt that any recurrence of these words
after the deposition of the relic in the Temple in 955 bc would
constitute strong evidence that it had in fact still been present in
the Holy of Holies on the date - or dates - that the phrase had
been used.
Accordingly I programmed my computer to search for the
words ‘between the cherubims’. A few seconds later I knew that
they had been cited only seven times in the entire postSolomonic period.

Two of these citations, in Psalm 80:1 and in Psalm 99:1,
clearly referred to the cherubim of the Ark. Unfortunately they

were impossible to date with any degree of accuracy: 38 there was
a small chance that they were pre-Solomonic, but the balance of
scholarly opinion held that the relevant verses were likely to have
been composed in the ‘early years of monarchy’ 39 - i.e. during
Solomon’s lifetime or within a century or so of his death.
The words ‘between the cherubims’ also cropped up three
40
times in the book of Ezekiel, which was a late work written after
41
the year 593 bc
In this context, however, all the uses of the
phrase were irrelevant to my investigation because: (a) the
‘cherubims’ referred to had been seen by Ezekiel in a vision that
came to him while he sat in his house; 42 (b) they were described
as having ‘four faces’ and ‘four wings’ each, whereas the
cherubim of the Ark had each only one face and two wings; 43 and
.

Hidden History
(c)

415

they were clearly living creatures of enormous size, not the

compact figurines of solid gold that had faced each
other across the ‘mercy seat’. 44 Indeed, at the end of Ezekiel’s
vision, his cherubims ‘lifted up their wings and mounted up from
and the sound of the cherubims’ wings
the earth in my sight
even ... as the voice of the Almighty God when he
was
relatively

.

.

.

.

.

.

speaketh.’ 45

In

my hunt for references that might prove the continued

presence of the Ark in the Jerusalem Temple at particular
periods, therefore, Ezekiel’s cherubims were of no consequence
and could safely be ignored. This meant that out of all the
occurrences of the phrase that I had instructed my computer to
search for I was now left with only two that might be of any help to
me at all. These appeared in Chapter 37 of the book of Isaiah and
46
in Chapter 19 of the second book of Kings.
Both recounted the
same event, both were of great importance, and both clearly and
unambiguously referred to the Ark of the Covenant - though
they did not mention it by name. This is what they said (the Isaiah
version, the older of the two, is in the left-hand column; the
Kings version is in the right-hand column):

Lord of Hosts, God of

Hezekiah went up into
the house of the Lord,
and
prayed before
the Lord, and said, O
Lord God ofIsrael

Israel that dwellest

which dwellest between

Hezekiah went up unto
the house of the Lord,
prayed unto
and
.

.

.

the Lord, saying,

O

,

between the cherubims

,

.

.

.

,

the cherubims , thou art

thou art the God, even
thou alone, of all
the kingdoms of the

the God, even thou

earth. 47

earth.

alone, of all the

kingdoms of the
48

As the reader will no doubt have observed, both passages not only
spoke of the same event but also did so in almost exactly the same
language. Indeed the verses in Kings came very close to being a
verbatim repeat of the verses in Isaiah. Those verses, scholars
were agreed, had been written by Isaiah himself. 49 And, since a
great deal was known about the life, times and activities of this

41 6

Where is the Glory?

,

famous prophet, it was possible to put a fairly precise date on his
account of Hezekiah’s prayer to the God of Israel that dwelled
‘between the cherubims’.
Isaiah was called to the prophetic office in 740 bc

5°

- the very

year in which King Uzziah had died after being smitten with
leprous sores in the incident described earlier.

51

He then

continued his ministry throughout the reigns of Jotham, Ahaz

and Hezekiah (respectively 740-736 bc, 736-716 bc and
52
716-687 bc ). Of crucial significance to my investigation was a
fact upon which academic opinion was unanimous: the verse in
which my computer had flagged the phrase ‘between the
cherubims’ had been written by Isaiah in 701 bc - the year in
which the Assyrian King Sennacherib had tried and failed to
capture Jerusalem. 53

Indeed, it had been on Isaiah’s direct advice that Hezekiah the Judaean monarch - had refused to surrender the city to the
Assyrians. 54 Sennacherib’s response had been to send a letter

threatening death and destruction, and Hezekiah had actually

been carrying this letter 55 when he had gone up ‘unto the house
prayed unto the Lord, saying, O Lord of
of the Lord, and
Hosts, God of Israel, that dwellest between the cherubims, thou
art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth.’
Hezekiah’s prayer had continued as follows:
.

.

Incline thine ear,

.

O Lord, and hear; open thine eyes, O

Lord, and see: and hear all the words of Sennacherib,
which hath sent to reproach the living God. Of a truth,
Lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations
and their countries.
Now therefore, O Lord our God,
save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth
may know that thou art the Lord, even thou only. 56
.

.

.

Miraculously, the Lord complied. First he sent his prophet
Isaiah to Hezekiah with this message:

Thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, He
shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there,
nor come before it with shields, nor cast a bank against it

Hidden History

.

.

417

.Fori will defend this city to save it for mine own sake. 57

Yahweh was as good as his word. That very night

The angel of the Lord went forth, and smote in the camp
of the Assyrians a hundred and fourscore and five

thousand: and when they arose early in the morning,
behold, they were all dead corpses. So Sennacherib king

of Assyria departed. 58

There could be no doubt about the historicity of these events: the
Assyrians had surrounded Jerusalem in 701 bc and they had
suddenly lifted their siege and fled. 59 Scholars believed that this
had happened because they had been afflicted by an outbreak of
60
bubonic plague.
Strangely, however, there was no evidence
that anyone in Jerusalem itself had gone on to contract this easily
transmissible disease. In the context of everything that I had learned
hitherto, therefore, I could not help but wonder whether the Ark

of the Covenant might not in some way have been involved in
Sennacherib’s undoing. The mass slaughter that had taken place
did sound very much like the sort of ‘miracle’ that, in earlier
61
times, the relic had so frequently performed.

But this was only an intuition, a hunch of my own. It had no
status whatsoever as evidence of the continued presence of the

Ark in the Temple in 701 bc. What did have that status was
Isaiah’s pure and eloquent testimony that King Hezekiah had
prayed for his deliverance to the ‘God of Israel, that dwellest
between the cherubims’. The monarch uttered this prayer inside
62
Moreover the full text of the first verse of the
the Temple.
passage containing this citation not only stated that he had
carried Sennacherib’s threatening letter with him - as noted
above - but also added that he had ‘spread it before the Lord’. 63
In just such a fashion, though in an earlier era, ‘Solomon
came to Jerusalem and stood before the Ark of the Covenant of the
Lord
and offered peace offerings.’ 64 In just such a fashion,
though in an earlier era, ‘David and all the house of Israel played
before the Lord on all manner of instruments made of fir wood,
even on harps, and psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets,
and on cymbals.’ 65 And in just such a fashion, though in an
.

.

.

.

.

.

418

Where is the Glory?

earlier era, ‘the Lord separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the Ark

of the Covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord to minister
66
unto him, and to bless his name.’

To cut a long and convoluted story very short indeed, the fact
Hezekiah had spread Sennacherib’s letter out before the
Lord\ and then had prayed to the ‘God of Israel, that dwellest
between the cherubims’ made it quite certain that the Ark of the
Covenant had been in the Holy of Holies at that time. There was
no other way in which this passage could be interpreted. And
because it did so effectively prove the continued presence of the
that

‘

relic within the Temple long after the reign of Solomon it also

dealt a fatal blow to the Kebra Nagasfs claim that the Ark had

been stolen by Menelik while Solomon was still alive.
I was not sure whether I should rejoice over this discovery or
whether I should lament it. I always find it slightly depressing
when a beautiful myth is discredited. And although I still hoped
to vindicate the central contention of the Kebra Nagast - namely
that the Ark had indeed gone to Ethiopia (although of course not
by the hand of Menelik) - I had absolutely no idea how I was
going to do this.
Rather dispiritedly, therefore, I turned back to the piles of
research papers and books spread out all around me in my hotel
room in Jerusalem. The good news, I supposed, was that my
investigation had come a long way. I had satisfied myself that the
Ark had not been removed from the Temple either during or
after the reign of King Josiah, which had begun in 640 bc.
Moreover it was now clear that it had still been in its place in the
Holy of Holies in 701 bc, the date of Hezekiah’s prayer. This left
just sixty-one years in which it could have disappeared, and even
that period could be narrowed down somewhat. Why? Because it
seemed obvious that Hezekiah himself would not have allowed
the sacred relic - before which he had prayed so efficaciously - to
be carried off by anyone.
Hezekiah had died in 687 bc and Josiah had taken the throne
in 640 bc. Between them there were only two monarchs Manasseh (687-642 bc) and Amon (642-640 bc ). 67 It followed
that the loss of the Ark must have occurred during the reigns of
one or other of these two kings.

Hidden History

419

The sin of Manasseh
As I immersed myself in the biblical texts once again it quickly
became apparent that the guilty party could only have been
Manasseh, who was castigated unmercifully by the scribes
because:

He did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, after
the abominations of the heathen

.

.

For he

.

.

.

.

reared up

and worshipped all the host of heaven,
and served them. And he built altars in the house of the
Lord ... for all the host of heaven
And he made his
son pass through the fire, and
used enchantments,
and dealt with familiar spirits and wizards: he wrought
much wickedness in the sight of the Lord to provoke him
And he set a graven image of the grove that
to anger
he had made in the house, of which the Lord said to
David and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in
Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of
altars for Baal

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Israel, will I put

my name for ever. 68

What was this ‘graven image of the grove’ that Manasseh had
made? And where exactly in the Temple had he put it?

To

an answer to the first question I temporarily
abandoned the King James Authorized Version of the Bible
(from which the above quotation is taken) and turned to the more
modern Jerusalem Bible which informed me that the ‘graven
image of the grove’ was in fact a ‘carved image of Asherah’, an
69
The answer to the second question was
arboreal pagan deity.
self- evident: the ‘house’ in which Yahweh had said that he would
put his ‘name for ever’ was the Holy of Holies of the Temple the debir, the dense golden cell that Solomon had ‘designed ... to
70
contain the Ark of the Covenant of Yahweh.’
The implications of what I had just learnt were enormous.
Manasseh, who had done ‘that which was evil in the sight of the
Lord’, had introduced an idol into the Holy of Holies of the
Temple. In taking this momentous step backwards towards
paganism it was inconceivable that he could have allowed the Ark
of the Covenant to remain in its place - since the Ark was the sign
find

420

Where is the Glory?

and the seal of Yahweh’s presence on earth and the ultimate
symbol of the fiercely monotheistic Judaic faith. At the same time
it was improbable that the apostatizing king would actually have
destroyed the sacred relic: on the contrary, with his predilection
for enchantments and wizardry, he would have regarded that as a
most unwise thing to do. The most likely scenario, therefore, was
that he would have ordered the Levites to remove the Ark from
the Temple before he installed his ‘Asherah’ in the inner sanctum.
And this would have been an order that they would have been
more than happy to comply with: as faithful servants of Yahweh
they would have done anything within their power to avoid the
pollution of the object that they regarded as the ‘footstool’ of their

God 71 - and they could hardly have imagined any worse
pollution than for it to have to share the Holy of Holies with the

graven image of some alien deity. As priests they would not have
been in a position to prevail militarily against a powerful

monarch like Manasseh; their best course of action would have
been to bow to the inevitable and to carry the Ark away to a place
of safety.

There were even indications in the Bible that the relic’s
enforced departure from the Temple might have resulted in
some kind of mass public protest against the king - a protest that
he had ruthlessly suppressed. This was only guesswork on my
part,

of course, but such a hypothesis did help to explain why

Manasseh was said to have ‘shed innocent blood ... in such great
quantity that he flooded Jerusalem from end to end.’

72

At any rate, it was clear that the reign of this monarch had, in
later years, come to be regarded as a blot, an aberration and an
abomination. He had been succeeded by his son Amon in 642 bc
and Amon had in turn been succeeded in 640 bc by Josiah, the
zealous reformer who was famous (and beloved of the scribes) for
having restored the traditional worship of Yahweh.
Why had Amon’s tenure of the throne been so brief? Because,
as the Bible explained, he had done
that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, as his father

Manasseh did. And he walked in all the way that his
father walked in, and served the idols that his father

served, and worshipped them

.

.

.

And the servants of

Hidden History

421

Amon conspired against him, and slew the king in his own
house

.

.

.

and the people of the land made Josiah his son

king in his stead. 73
Josiah, however, had been only ‘eight years old when he began to
reign’ 74

and it was not until eight years after that, the Bible
reported, that he had shown the first signs of wanting to ‘seek
after the God of David’. 75 Indeed the young monarch’s passionate reaction against the sins of Manasseh and Amon did not
begin until the ‘twelfth year’ of his reign when - at the age of
twenty - he launched a campaign ‘to purge Judah and Jerusalem
76
from
the carved images, and the molten images’.
.

.

.

And he brought out the grove [Asherah] from the house
of the Lord, right out of Jerusalem, unto the brook
Kidron, and burned it in the brook Kidron, and stamped
it to small powder, and cast the powder thereof on the

common burying ground. 77

A passionate reaction indeed! And, moreover, one that could be
dated: it had been in 628 bc, the twelfth year of Josiah’s reign,
that Manasseh’s loathsome idol had at last been rooted out of the

Holy of Holies. The Ark, however, had certainly not been
brought back in to replace it. As I already knew, Jeremiah had
been responding to public grief at the continued absence of the
relic two years later when he had prophesied that a time would
eventually come when people would no longer ask ‘where is the
Ark of the Covenant of Yahweh’ - a time when they would have
‘no regret for it’ and when they would not consider ‘making
another’.

Four years after that Josiah himself had rather forlornly asked
the Levites to restore the Ark to the Temple, adding ‘it shall not
be a burden for your shoulders’. That had been in 622 bc, the
eighteenth year of his reign, and it was no coincidence that it had
been in that very same year, having completed a lengthy
nationwide purge, that he had ‘returned to Jerusalem’ and issued
78
orders ‘to repair the house of the Lord his God’.
The repairs had been duly carried out by ‘carpenters and
builders and masons’. 79 The great mystery, however, was that

422

Where is the Glory?

the Levites had been unable to comply with Josiah’s request that

they should ‘put the Holy Ark in the house which Solomon the

son of David king of Israel did build.’ I was now increasingly sure
that the answer to that mystery must lie in Ethiopia - although I
was not yet in a position to fathom out exactly how or why.
Meanwhile I sought academic support for my view that it must
have been during the reign of Manasseh that the Ark had gone
missing in the first place. I found that support in an authoritative
treatise that I had already had occasion to consult several times

before - Professor Menahem Haran’s Temples and Temple Service
in Ancient Israel. Here, in a brief section in the middle of the book,
I

read that:

throughout the various changes that took place in the

Kingdom of Judah, the Temple at Jerusalem never ceased to
There was
serve exclusively as a Temple of Yahweh
only one single period in its history when it was temporarily
.

.

.

deprived of its original function and for a short while ceased
to serve as a Temple to Yahweh

This occurred during
the reign of Manasseh
who set up vessels for Baal ... in
the outer sanctum and introduced the image of Asherah
into the inner sanctum of the Temple
This is the only
happening which may explain the disappearance of the Ark
and the cherubim ... We are entitled to infer that the
image of Asherah
was substituted for the Ark and the
cherubim. Some fifty years afterwards, whenjosiah
removed the Asherah from the Temple and burnt it in the
Kidron Valley, beating it to dust and desecrating even the
80
dust, the Ark and the cherubim were no longer there.
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

number of telephone calls to the Hebrew
University I managed to track down Professor Haran. I told him
After making a

that I had read his book and that I was excited by his suggestion
that the Ark of the

Covenant might have been lost during the
reign of Manasseh. Could he spare me half an hour or so to
discuss the matter further? He replied that he would be only too
happy to do so and invited me to visit him at his home in
Jerusalem’s Alfasi Street.

Haran proved to be an elderly but robust man, grey-haired and

Hidden History

423

solidly built - the very image of the type of learned but eminently

practical biblical scholar that one meets so often in Israel. I told

him a little about my own research and then asked whether he
was certain in his own mind that the Ark had indeed been
removed from the Temple in Manasseh’s time.
4

Yes, he replied with conviction, ‘I am as certain of that as I
5

can possibly be. This is why the Ark is not referred to in the long
lists of Temple vessels and treasures that were later taken by the
Babylonians. And I should add with all modesty that my views on
this subject have never been refuted in scholarship.’
I took this opportunity to put a question that had been
bothering me for some time: ‘If the Ark was taken out as a result
of Manasseh’s idolatry then how do you account for the fact that
the Scriptures make absolutely no mention of the loss?’
‘I account for it in this way. To have to write down such a
report would have filled the scribes with disgust - with such a
horrible feeling - that definitely they would have averted from it.
I therefore believe that they deliberately refrained from reporting
the loss of the Ark. Even in what they did report of Manasseh’s
reign their feelings of utter horror do come through. Yet they
could not bring themselves to indulge in a description of the
occurrence itself.’
‘Do you have any idea at all’, I asked next, ‘what could have
happened to the relic after it was removed?’
Haran shrugged: ‘On that I cannot speculate. It is impossible
to prove. I can only say with confidence that the orthodox priests
of Yahweh would under no circumstances have permitted the
Ark of Yahweh to stay in the same place as the idol of Asherah.’
‘So do you think they took it away somewhere? To a place of
safety?’

Another shrug: ‘As I say, I cannot speculate on such matters.
However it is evident from our records, from the Holy Writ, that
Jerusalem itself - in fact the whole country - was not a safe place
for those who were loyal to the worship of Yahweh during
Manasseh’s time.’
‘Are you referring to the passage in the book of Kings that talks
about innocent blood being spilled?’
‘Yes. 2 Kings 21:16. And not only that. Jeremiah also speaks
obliquely of the same events when he says “your sword hath

424

Where is the Glory?

devoured your prophets like a destroying lion”. I have no doubt
that this was a reference to the acts of Manasseh and I infer from
it that certain prophets had opposed him and that for this they
were massacred. It is an interesting phenomenon, you know, that
you do not find any prophets at all during the reign of Manasseh
himself -Jeremiah came just afterwards and others, like Isaiah,
came just before. The gap was the result of persecutions and of a
sustained campaign against the worship of Yahweh.’
The Professor would not be pushed any further on this subject
and resolutely refused to indulge in what he obviously regarded
as idle speculation about where the Ark could have gone. When I
mentioned my theory that it might have been taken to Ethiopia he
looked at me blankly for about half a minute and then concluded:
‘That seems rather far.’

A temple on the Nile
Menahem Haran I returned to my hotel
feeling directionless and confused. Of course it had been exciting
After interviewing

to

get his confirmation that the

Ark had been

lost

during

Manasseh’s reign. The trouble was, however, that I now seemed
to have arrived at the brink of a deep intellectual precipice.
Ethiopia was indeed ‘rather far’ from Jerusalem, and I could see
no good reason why the loyal priests of Yahweh who had carried
the sacred relic out of the Temple should subsequently have

taken it to such a distant place.

Moreover, the dates didn’t fit. Manasseh had sat on the throne
in Jerusalem from 687 to 642 bc, but the Tana Kirkos traditions
asserted that the Ark had not arrived in Ethiopia until approximately 470 bc. So I was still two hundred years adrift.
As I chewed over this problem I realized that what I needed to
do was to talk to some Ethiopians. And what better place was
there in which to talk to Ethiopians than in the State of Israel?
After all, tens of thousands of Falashas - who claimed citizenship
under the terms of the Law of Return - had been airlifted here
over the past decade. Surely amongst them there must be some
elders, knowledgeable in the folk memory of their people, who
could help me to bridge the geographical and chronological abyss
that yawned before me?

Hidden History

425

Further enquiries at the Hebrew University produced the
name of Shalva Weil, a social anthropologist who had specialized
in far-flung Jewish communities and who was regarded as
something of an expert on Falasha culture. I telephoned her at
her home and, after introducing myself, asked her if she could
recommend any member of the Falasha community in Jerusalem
who might be able to speak with authority on the ancient
traditions of the Ethiopian Jews.
‘Your best bet’, she replied without hesitation, ‘would be
Raphael Hadane. He’s a priest, a very senior priest. He’s been
here for a few years. He’s an elderly man and extremely
knowledgeable. The only problem is he doesn’t speak English so
you should try to see him with his son.’

‘Whose name is?’
‘Yoseph Hadane. He came to Israel as a boy in the early 1970s
and he’s now a fully trained rabbi. He does speak fluent English
so he’ll be able to translate for you.’

Arranging the meeting took up most of my last two days in
Jerusalem. Finally, however, I did manage to get together with
the Hadane family at the Falasha Absorption Centre, which was
located in a suburb called Mevasserit Zion to the west of the city.
Here I found hundreds of Ethiopians, some newly arrived, others
long-term residents, living in a somewhat ramshackle housing
estate.

Raphael Hadane, the Falasha priest, was dressed in a
traditional Abyssinian shemma and sported a considerable beard.
His son, the rabbi, was clean-shaven and wore a smart business
suit. For a long while we sat around drinking tea and exchanging
pleasantries while children played at our feet and various
assorted relatives came and went. One of these latter, as it
happened, had been born and brought up in the village of
Anbober, which I had visited in January 1990 on my trip to
Gondar.
‘Does Anbober really still exist?’ he asked me rather plaintively. ‘It’s five years since I left home.’
‘It does still exist,’ I replied, ‘or rather it did in January. The
population seemed to be mainly women and children, though.’
‘This is because the men emigrate first to prepare a place for
their families. Did you talk to anyone there?’

426

Where is the Glory?

I told

them that I had interviewed the priest, Solomon Alemu,

and this brought smiles of recognition from everyone around the
table. ‘They all know him well/ explained Rabbi Hadane. ‘Ours
and close knit.’
is a small society
Eventually I switched on my tape-recorder and began the
interview with the rabbi’s venerable father. Much of what he had
to say about Falasha culture and religion was already very
familiar. When I turned to what was now the central issue for me,
however - i.e. exactly how and when Judaism had arrived in
Ethiopia - he told me something that made me prick up my ears.
I had asked a leading question about Menelik and the Queen of
Sheba - hoping, after the ritual repetition of the Kebra Nagast
story, to pin the old man down on the matter of the date that
Menelik’s supposed journey had taken place. Hadane surprised
me by dismissing the legend entirely: ‘Some of us say that we are
descended from the Israelites who accompanied Menelik, but
personally I do not believe that. According to the traditions that I
heard in my childhood, our ancestors were Jews who had first
lived in Egypt before they came to Ethiopia.’
‘But,’ I interjected, ‘the Kebra Nagast says that too. It says that
Menelik and his companions travelled through Egypt.’
‘That is not what I mean. After leaving Israel, our forefathers
.

.

.

did not just travel through Egypt. They settled in that country for
a very long time - for hundreds of years. And they built a temple
there.’
I

leaned forward over the tape-recorder: ‘A temple? Where did

they build this temple?’
‘At Aswan.’

Solomon Alemu, the
priest at Anbober, had also mentioned Aswan to me when I had
interviewed him in January. At the time I had resolved to make a
This,

I

trip there.

thought, was very interesting.

And I had in fact travelled quite widely in Egypt since

doing that interview. I had not yet gone as far south as Aswan,
however, and I was now beginning to wonder whether that might
not have been a mistake. If there had indeed been a Jewish
temple there, as Hadane had just indicated, then this was
potentially a matter of great importance - because the function of
the Temple in orthodox Judaism had been to house the Ark of
the Covenant. If it was true that a temple had been built at Aswan,

Hidden History

427

and if this had happened after the Ark had been removed from
Jerusalem, then the implications were obvious.
Hadane was unable to be at all specific as to the date of this
Aswan temple, however. All he could tell me was that it had
endured ‘for a long while’ but that it had eventually been destroyed.
‘Why was it destroyed?’
‘There was a great war in Egypt. A foreign king who had
captured many countries came to Egypt and destroyed all the
temples of the Egyptians. But he did not destroy our temple. So
when the Egyptians saw that only the Jewish temple was not
destroyed they suspected we were on the side of the invader.
Because of this they started to fight against us and they destroyed
our temple and we were forced to flee.’
‘And you went to Ethiopia?’
‘Not straight away. Our forefathers passed first into Sudan,
through Meroe, where they remained for a short while. But they
were driven out by another war. Then they split into two parties:
one group went following the Takazze river; the other group
following the Nile. And in this way they arrived in Ethiopia, in

Quara, close to Lake Tana. There we made our homes. There
we became Ethiopians. And because we were far from Israel,
though we had stayed in touch with Jerusalem all the time that we
were in Egypt and in the Sudan, we now lost that contact and it
became to us only a memory.’
I next asked Hadane whether there was any place in the Lake
Tana area that the Falashas regarded as being particularly
important or sacred.
‘Three places,’ he replied. ‘The first, the most important, is
Tana Kirkos, the second is Daga Stephanos, the third is Zegie.’
raised my eyebrows: ‘Why is Tana Kirkos the most
I
important?’

do not know exactly. But all our people regard it as sacred.’
My last question was a specific one about the Ark: ‘Ethiopian
Christians say that they have the Ark of the Covenant at Axum the original Ark of the Covenant that was supposed to have been
brought from Jerusalem by Menelik, son of the Queen of Sheba
and King Solomon. You’ve told me that you don’t believe the
Menelik story. But do you believe that the Christians have the
‘I

Ark as they claim?’

428

Where is the Glory?

‘Our people believe, and I myself also believe, that the Ark of
the Covenant is in Axum. As a matter of fact, some years ago, I
and others of our spiritual leaders went from our home to Axum
to try to see the Ark for ourselves. We were very interested in
this tradition and we wanted to see the Holy Ark. So we went
there, and we got to Axum, and to the church of Saint Mary.
But we were told that it was forbidden for us to enter the chapel
where the Ark is, because if we were to enter into there we
would die. So we said, “OK. We will purify ourselves and then
we will go in there and we will see.” So we did that, we purified
ourselves, but still the Christian priests would not permit us to
enter the chapel. Because of that we had to return to our place
without seeing it.’
‘I’ve heard that it is brought out in public once a year, at the

ceremony of Timkat. You would have had a better chance of
seeing it if you had gone there at Timkat
Hadane laughed bitterly: ‘I have heard that too. But I do not
believe that the Christians would ever bring out the true Ark.
They would not do that. They will never show it to anyone. They
will use a replica instead. Do you know why? Because they took
the Ark from us long, long ago, and they do not want to give it
back. They are jealous of it. So therefore they keep it always
concealed in its chapel, surrounded by bars, where no one may
approach it other than the one who is appointed as its guardian.’
.’

When

Centre at
Mevasserit Zion and returned to downtown Jerusalem my head
was literally buzzing with ideas and question. Of all the Ethiopian
Jews whom I had talked to during the course of my research,
Hadane had proved to be by far the most lucid and the most
informative. The story of his attempt to see the Ark in Axum had
intrigued me. And the special importance that he had accorded
to the island of Tana Kirkos was surely of great significance in
the light of what I myself had learnt there during my trip in
November 1989. But what had interested me most of all about
his answers was the reference that he had made to the existence,
at some remote period in history, of a Jewish temple at Aswan. If
there was any truth to this then I would certainly have to go to that
Upper Egyptian town, which lay some two hundred kilometres to
the south of Karnak and Luxor.
I

finally

left

the

Falasha

Absorption

Hidden History

429

Back in my hotel room I dialled the number of Dr Shalva Weil,
the social anthropologist who had put me in touch with Hadane.

‘How did the interview go?’ she asked breezily.
‘Very well, thank you. Most helpful. I’m grateful to you for the
contact.’
I

paused awkwardly.

I

always

feel

slightly

silly

putting

completely idiotic questions to academics. But there was no
getting around this one. I had to ask: ‘During our interview

Hadane mentioned something to me about a temple - a Jewish
temple - at Aswan in Egypt. I know what I’m going to say next is a
bit nuts, but I’ve learnt not to dismiss folk-traditions completely

without at least checking them out. Anyway, what I want to ask

you is this: is there actually any possibility that such a temple
could ever have existed?’
‘Certainly it existed,’ Dr Weil replied. ‘It was a proper temple,

dedicated to Yahweh. But it wasn’t actually in Aswan proper. It
stood on the island of Elephantine in the middle of the Nile.

There are some archaeological excavations going on there right
now, as a matter of fact.’
‘And this island ... I mean ... is it far from Aswan?’
‘Not more than two hundred metres in a straight line. It takes
about five minutes to sail there in a felucca .’
‘So effectively Hadane was right when he talked about a
temple at Aswan?’
‘Absolutely right, yes.’

‘But does this temple have anything to do with the Falashas?

Hadane said that it had been built by his forefathers.’
‘It’s possible, I

suppose. Academics are divided on the issue.

Most of us believe that the Falashas are the descendants of
Jewish merchants and settlers who reached Ethiopia from south
Arabia. But there is one respectable body of opinion which holds
that

they

are

descended

from the Jews who

fled

from

Elephantine.’
‘Fled? Why?’

‘Their temple was destroyed - some time in the fifth century

bc I believe - and the Jewish community that had lived on the
island vanished after that. It’s a bit of a mystery, actually. They
just melted away.

But I’m not an expert ... I can recommend

some books if you like.’

430
I

Where is the Glory?
thanked

Dr Weil for this offer, jotted down the short

bibliography that she gave me, and said goodbye to her in a state

of some excitement. It had been in the fifth century bc, according
to the Tana Kirkos traditions, that the Ark of the Covenant had

arrived in Ethiopia.

Now I knew that a Jewish temple on the

upper Nile had been destroyed in that same century. Was it not
possible that that temple had been built two hundred years earlier
to house the Ark after it had been removed from Jerusalem
during the reign of Manasseh?
I intended to find out and left Israel the next day - not for
London, as I had originally planned, but for Egypt.

Chapter 16

Door of the Southern
Countries

Aswan is located on the east bank of the Nile at a point roughly
equidistant from Israel and from the northern borders of
Ethiopia. Well placed as a staging post between the African and

Mediterranean worlds, its name was derived from the Greek
word Seyene which in turn was a corruption of the ancient
Egyptian Swenet meaning ‘making business ’. In antiquity the
town profited greatly from a rich two-way commerce in which
manufactured goods flowed southwards from the high civilization of Egypt, and in which spices, aromatic substances, slaves,
gold and ivory from sub-Saharan Africa were traded north. It was
from this latter commodity, ivory, that the island in which I was
interested had received its name, for Elephantine (which lies in
the middle of the Nile directly opposite Aswan) had once been
2
known simply as Abu, or Elephant Land
At the reception desk of the New Cataract Hotel in Aswan I
enquired about Elephantine and particularly about its Jewish
temple. Shalva Weil had already told me that it had been
destroyed in the fifth century bc but she had also said that
archaeologists were working there, so I hoped very much that
there might be ruins to visit.
,

1

,

.

Mention of the word ‘Jewish’ did not elicit a favourable
response from the hotel staff; despite the relatively positive
diplomatic relationship that had been forged between Egypt and
Israel in recent years I had forgotten how much bad blood and
bitterness

still

divided the peoples of the two neighbouring

countries. Finally, however, I did manage to extract the following

from the front-desk manager: ‘Many temples on
Elephantine - Egyptian, Roman, maybe Jewish ... I don’t know.

intelligence

Where is the Glory?

432

You can go see, take a felucca ride, find out. Anyway there are
archaeologists there, German archaeologists. Just ask for Mr
Kaiser.’

Mr Kaiser, eh, I thought as I walked out of the lobby and into a
fiercely hot day, a likely story!

Indiana Jones
was shown to a
building on the island’s west bank where I was told ‘the Germans’
lived. I made my way to the front door, knocked, and was
admitted by a Nubian manservant wearing a red fez Without
questioning me he led me along a corridor and into an interesting
room, the walls of which were lined from floor to ceiling with
wooden shelves loaded with broken fragments of pottery and
other artefacts. Then he turned to go.
I’m looking for Mr Kaiser.
I coughed: ‘Excuse me. Er
Could you call him please?’
The servant paused, favoured me with an inscrutable stare and
After a short felucca ride to Elephantine

I

.

.

.

.

then left, still without saying anything.
Five minutes or so passed, during which I stood dithering in
the middle of the floor, and then

.

.

.

Indiana Jones appeared in

doorway. Or, rather, not Indiana Jones himself but a
Harrison Ford lookalike. Wearing a Panama hat at a jaunty angle,

the

he was tall and muscular, ruggedly handsome, and gimlet-eyed.
Clearly he had not shaved for several days.
I resisted a strong urge to exclaim, ‘Mr Kaiser, I presume’, and
asked less theatrically: ‘Are you Mr Kaiser?’
‘No. My name is Cornelius von Pilgrim.’ He advanced towards
me, and, as I introduced myself, he extended a strong and
suntanned right hand for me to shake.
‘I’m visiting Elephantine’, I explained, ‘in connection with a
project of mine. I’m interested in the archaeology of the temple
here.’

‘Ah ha.’
‘Yes. You see I’m investigating a historical mystery

er

.

.

.

.

.

.

the

.

.

.

the loss of, I mean the disappearance of the Ark of the

Covenant.’

‘Ah ha.’

Door of the Southern Countries

433

‘Do you know what I mean by the Ark of the Covenant?’
By now Cornelius von Pilgrim’s expression could only be
described as glazed. ‘No,’ he replied curtly in answer to my
question.

‘You do speak English do you?’ I asked. I wanted to be sure.
‘Yes. Quite well.’
‘Good. OK, then. The Ark. Now let’s see. You know about
Moses, right?’

A faint nod.
‘And the Ten Commandments, carved on tablets of stone?’
Another nod.
‘Well, the Ark of the Covenant was the chest made of wood
and gold that the Ten Commandments were put in. And
.

er

.

.

.

.

.

I’m looking for it.’

Cornelius von Pilgrim did not seem to be overly impressed.

Then he said, without the slightest trace of humour: ‘Ah ha. Like
Indiana Jones you mean?’
‘Yes. That’s exactly what I mean. Anyway, the reason why I’m
in Elephantine is that I was told on good authority that there was a

Jewish temple here. My theory is that the Ark, somehow, was
taken to Ethiopia in ancient times. So naturally I’m wondering
whether there is any possibility - or any archaeological evidence
even - that it might have been brought here first before it went to
Ethiopia. You see, I think it was removed from Jerusalem in the
seventh century bc. So the question is - what happened in the
intervening two hundred years?’
‘You are wondering whether during those two centuries the
Ark could have been kept in the Jewish temple on this island?’
‘Absolutely. In fact I’m hoping that you and your team may
have excavated the temple. If you have then I’d very much like to
know what you found.’
Cornelius von Pilgrim removed his hat before demolishing my
hopes. ‘Yes,’ he said after a rather lengthy pause, ‘but on the site
that you are interested in there’s nothing to be seen. We’d
beneath the ruins of
thought there might be something left
.

.

.

the Roman temple that was later built on top of the Jewish one.

But now we’ve dug down all the way through the foundations.

And there’s just nothing. Absolutely nothing at all. It’s a fact that
there was a substantial Jewish settlement here between the

434

Where is the Glory?

seventh and the fifth century bc but nothing remains of it now
for archaeology except some of the houses of the people. That’s

I’m afraid.’
Trying to ignore the immense feeling of depression that had
just washed over me I asked: ‘If nothing remains of the temple
all,

then how do you know that it was ever there?’
‘Oh. That is not a problem. That is not in doubt. For a while
there was a great deal of correspondence between this island and
the city of Jerusalem. These letters were written on ostraca -

potsherds - and on papyrus scrolls. Many of them have been

found and translated and a large number make specific reference
to the Temple of Yahweh on Elephantine. The matter is well
attested historically and because of this we do know, within a few
metres, the exact site of the temple, we also know when the
temple was destroyed - it was 410 bc - and finally we know that
the later Roman temple was built in the place where the Jewish
temple had previously stood. It is all very clear.’
‘Why was the Jewish temple destroyed?’
‘Look ... I am not an expert in these matters. I specialize in the
remains from the second millennium bc - well before your
period. To find out more detailed information you will have to
talk to a colleague of mine who has taken a special interest in the

Jewish colony. He is Mr Achim Krekeler.’
‘Is he here now?’
‘Unfortunately not.

He

is

in

Cairo.

But he

will

return

tomorrow. Will you still be here tomorrow?’
‘Yes. I mean ... I don’t have long. I have to get back to
England. But I can wait until tomorrow.’
‘Good. So I suggest then that you come back tomorrow, in the
afternoon, say around three p.m., and you will see Mr Krekeler.
Meanwhile, if you like, I would be happy to show you where the
and the site of your temple.’
Jewish colony was
I took von Pilgrim up on this kind offer. As we walked I asked
him under whose auspices the excavations on Elephantine were
being conducted.
‘We are from the German Archaeological Institute in Berlin,’
he replied. ‘We have been working here for a number of years.’
We had arrived at the foot of a low hill. On the slopes above us,
spread out over a wide area, was a maze of rubble and masonry,
.

.

.

Door of the Southern Countries

435

amidst which partially reconstructed dry-stone walls betrayed
the outlines of rooms, houses and streets. ‘This’, said von
Pilgrim, ‘was the part of the old town of Elephantine where the

Jewish people lived.’

We began to climb, picking our way with care amongst the
crumbling ruins. By the time we reached the summit I was quite
out of breath - but I had also shaken off the mood of depression
that had assailed me earlier. Though I could not have explained
exactly why, I felt that there was something about this place which
right - something haunting and evocative that spoke of
was
ancient days and hidden histories.
Cornelius von Pilgrim had led me to the highest point on the
island of Elephantine. Now he gestured around us and said: ‘The
Jewish temple was here, beneath where we are standing.’
I pointed to a massive, broken column that loomed just ahead
of us and to our right and asked what it was.
‘Part of the Roman temple I told you about. As a matter of fact
there’s evidence that quite a number of other temples stood here
at different periods, dedicated to the gods of the various foreign
powers that occupied Egypt in the first millennium bc. Often the
architects of these temples would re-use the materials from the
earlier buildings. This, I think, is why the Jewish temple so
completely disappeared. It was destroyed, knocked down, maybe
burnt, and then its masonry was broken up and incorporated into
.

.

.

the walls of the next temple.’

asked before why the Jewish temple was destroyed. You

‘I

didn’t get round to telling me

.’
.

.

‘Broadly speaking we believe that there was a problem between

members of the Jewish community and the Egyptian
residents of the island. You see there was an Egyptian temple
the

too

.’
.

.

‘On the same site?’
‘No. The Jewish temple had been built more or less beside it.

The Egyptian temple was over there’ - he gestured in the
direction of another pile of rubble - ‘and some remains from it

have been found. It was dedicated to the god Khnum. He was a
ram-headed god. All his effigies show him with the head of a ram.
And we speculate from this that some serious tension may have
arisen between the Jewish priests and the Egyptian priests.’

436

Where is the Glory?

»

‘Why tension?’
‘Well, it’s obvious.. It is known that the Jews here practised
sacrifice and almost certainly they sacrificed rams. This would

not have made the priests of Khnum very happy. So we guess that
at a certain date

they simply turned on the Jews and perhaps

massacred them, or perhaps expelled them from the island, and
then afterwards destroyed their temple.’
‘And you said that that date was 410 bc?’
‘Yes. That’s right. But you must talk to Achim Krekeler for

more details.’

The missing link?
I

returned the next afternoon as von Pilgrim had suggested.

Meanwhile I had spent a sleepless night and a restless morning
thinking through everything that I had learned, working out the
logic of events and trying to arrive at some tentative conclusions.
As a result of this process - even before my meeting with
Krekeler - I was reasonably confident in my own mind that the
Jewish temple on Elephantine might indeed prove to be the
missing link in the chain of clues that I had assembled over the
previous two years. If I was right, and if a group of Levites had left
Jerusalem with the Ark of the Covenant during the reign of
Manasseh, then they could hardly have chosen a better place of
safety. Here they would have been far beyond the reach of the
wicked Jewish king who had introduced an idol into the Holy of
Holies. Moreover, since I had established the relationship
between the ceremony of the Ark and the festival of Apet (held
each year at Luxor just two hundred kilometres to the north - see
chapter 12), it seemed to me that this Upper Egyptian island
could also have been seen by the fugitive priests as a uniquely
appropriate location: surrounded on all sides by the sacred waters
of the river Nile, might they not have felt that they had returned
to their roots?

All this was speculation. What was certain, however, was that a

Jewish temple had been built here at approximately the right time
to have sheltered the Ark after its removal from the Holy of
Holies in Jerusalem. It was also certain that that same temple had
subsequently been destroyed during the same century in which -

Door of the Southern Countries

437

according to the Tana Kirkos traditions - the Ark had been

brought to Ethiopia. All this, it seemed to me, added up to a
compellingly suggestive series of events. And I was not greatly

worried by the fact that the date of the Elephantine temple's
destruction - 410 bc - was approximately sixty years later than
the date that I had calculated for the Ark's arrival on Tana Kirkos

(470 bc). Over the huge period of time between the fifth century
bc and the twentieth century ad it seemed to me quite possible

on which I had based that
calculation could have gone adrift by sixty years or so.
I was therefore in an optimistic frame of mind when I arrived
back at the German Archaeological Institute's house for my
meeting with Achim Krekeler. A stocky, friendly man in his
mid-thirties who spoke good English, I found him poring over
fragments of ancient papyrus which, he explained, had to be
handled with great care because they were exceptionally brittle.
‘And it's papyri like these that have provided the main
that the Ethiopian oral traditions

evidence for the existence of the Jewish temple?’
‘Yes, and for its destruction. After 410 bc a number of letters

were sent to Jerusalem describing what had happened and
seeking funds and permission for a possible reconstruction.'
‘But the temple was never rebuilt, was it?'
‘No, definitely not. In fact all the correspondence suddenly

stopped around 400 bc. After that it seems that the Jewish
people left Elephantine.’
‘Do you know what happened to them?'
‘No. Not really. But clearly they had been in trouble with the
Egyptians for some time. Probably they were forced to leave.'
‘And you don't know where they went?'

‘No information on that has ever been found.’
At some length I explained to Krekeler my interest in the Ark
of the Covenant and my feeling that it might have got to Ethiopia
by way of Elephantine. I then asked whether he thought that
there was any possibility at all that the sacred relic could have
been brought to the island.
‘Of course it is possible. Anything is possible. But I had always
understood that the Ark was destroyed when the Temple in
Jerusalem was burnt down by the Babylonians.'
‘That's the orthodox theory. But I’m fairly sure that it was

438

Where is the Glory?

taken out quite some time before then - in the seventh century
bc, during the reign of Manasseh. So one of the things that Fm

hoping you’ll be able to give me is a precise date for the building
of the temple here in Elephantine.’
‘Fm afraid there is no precise date. Opinions vary. But
personally I would have no difficulty in accepting that it might
have been built some time in the seventh century bc. Other
scholars also share that view.’

‘And do you have any idea what the temple would have looked
like? I know you haven’t recovered any material artefacts but Fm
wondering whether there might have been any hints in the
papyri?’

‘A few. No sacred writings as such have yet been recovered.
But we have found a fair amount of descriptive information about
the exterior of the temple. From this we can say for certain that it

had pillars of stone, five gateways also made of stone, and a roof
of cedarwood.’

‘Would it have had a Holy of Holies?’
‘Presumably. It was a substantial building, a proper temple.
But there is insufficient evidence to be certain whether there was
a Holy of Holies or not.’
We continued to talk around the subject for another hour or
so. Finally, however, Krekeler announced that his time was short
as he was due to return to Cairo the next day and he had much to
do. ‘I can lend you two of the best academic publications on
Elephantine,’ he offered, ‘as long as you promise to bring them
back tomorrow. They summarize all the main findings of the
research that has been done here by scholars from many different
countries since the turn of the century.’

When I returned to my hotel I was carrying the weighty tomes
that Krekeler had mentioned. They fully repaid the long night
that I spent studying them.

The Ark in Elephantine
Here is what I learned about the Jewish Temple on Elephantine
- the key facts of relevance to my quest, as I recorded them in my
notebook:

Door of the Southern Countries
1

439

The temple, as Krekeler told me, must have been a
building of some considerable size. Quite a lot of

information about its appearance survived in the
papyri and the archaeologists have concluded that its

dimensions were ninety feet long by thirty feet wide. 3
In old measurements this is, of course sixty cubits by
twenty cubits. 4 Interestingly, the Bible gives exactly
the same measurements for Solomon's Temple in

Jerusalem. 5
2

.

t

The Elephantine Temple was roofed with cedarwood; 6
so was Solomon’s Temple. 7

3

It seems,

therefore, that Soloman’s Temple must have

provided the model for the Elephantine Temple.
Since the former had originally been built to
accommodate the Ark of the Covenant, is it not
probable that the latter was as well?

4 Animal sacrifice was routinely practised at the
Elephantine Temple - including the all-important
sacrifice of a lamb as the opening rite of Passover
8

This is highly significant since it indicates that
the Jewish community must have migrated to
Elephantine before the reforms of King Josiah (640- 609
bc). Those reforms conclusively banned sacrifice at any
location other than the Jerusalem Temple (a ban that
was subsequently respected even by the exiles during
the captivity in Babylon). On Elephantine, however,
sacrifice continued to be an important ritual for the Jews
in the sixth and fifth centuries bc 9 Since those Jews
were engaged in a regular correspondence with
Jerusalem there can be no doubt that they would have
week.

.

known about Josiah’s ban. Nevertheless, they continued
to perform sacrifices. They must, therefore, have felt
that they had some special authority so to do. It goes
without saying that the presence of the Ark of the

Covenant in their temple would have provided them
with all the authority they needed.
5 In this connection it is worthy of note that the
Elephantine Jews clearly thought that Yahweh resided

physically in their temple: a number of papyri speak of

2

1

Where is the Glory?

440

,

him - in no uncertain terms - as ‘dwelling’ there. ° In
1

ancient Israel (and during the wanderings in the
wilderness) Yahweh was believed to reside wherever the

Ark was;

1

indeed this belief only really changed after

the loss of the Ark had been recognized.

1

When the

Jews of Elephantine spoke of Yahweh as a deity who was
physically present with them, therefore, it follows that

they could well have been referring to the Ark.
6 The Elephantine Jews frequently spoke of the deity
dwelling in their temple as ‘the Lord oY Hosts’ or

‘Yahweh of Hosts’. 13 Scholars recognize this phrase
14
It was frequently used in
as an archaic one.
connection with the Ark (e.g. in the period before
Solomon’s Temple was built ‘the people sent to
Shiloh that they might bring from thence the Ark of
15
the Covenant of the Lord of Hosts.’ ).
7 All the above factors lend credibility to the view that the
Ark could have been lodged in the Elephantine Temple

- and, indeed, that its presence on the island could have
been the reason for the building of that Temple in the
first place. Krekeler was right to tell
%

me that no exact

date of construction has yet been established. From the
literature, however, it is clear that the scholars who

analysed the papyri did a great deal of work on precisely
this subject. They point out that by the early seventh

century bc there was already a substantial Jewish
population on the island of Elephantine, made up

mainly of a garrison of mercenaries in the pay of the
Egyptians. These Jewish soldiers, together with their
families, would have constituted a viable social context

for temple worship.

On the basis of this and a great deal

of other evidence, the considered opinion of the
scholars is therefore that the Elephantine Temple must

have been built by the year 650 bc
8

It is impossible

16
.

to overstate the significance of this

date. Why? Because it falls during the reign of

Manasseh - the king who introduced an idol into the
Holy of Holies of the Jerusalem Temple, thus causing
the Ark to be removed (probably by priests who
remained loyal to the traditional worship of Yahweh).

Door of the Southern Countries

441

was a difficult enough task to establish that the
sacred relic must indeed have been taken out at this
17 time
but, having completed that task, I am
satisfied that there is no evidence in the Bible about
where it might have been taken to (even Professor
Menahem Haran was unable to put forward any
theories as to what could have happened to it after it
It

left Jerusalem).

9

The academic authorities who studied the
Elephantine papyri, and who arrived at the date of
650 bc for the construction of the Temple, were
clearly not aware that the Ark could have gone
missing from Jerusalem during the reign of Manasseh.
If they had been then they would certainly have put
two and two together. They were aware, however, of
the widespread outrage caused by that monarch’s

‘pagan innovations’, and they concluded that this
outrage was the only possible explanation for the
otherwise inexplicable fact that a Jewish temple was
built on Elephantine:

Manasseh’s reign was accompanied by much
bloodshed and it may be surmised that priests
as well as prophets opposed his paganisation.

Some of the priests fled to Egypt, joined the
Jewish garrison at Elephantine, and there
erected the Temple.

.

.

.

1

10 These are the words of Bezalel Porten, author of the
authoritative study Archives from Elephantine. Porten

nevertheless remains puzzled by the fact that a Jewish

temple could have been built at Elephantine at all,
because of the notion, deeply entrenched within
Judaism, ‘that foreign soil was unclean and that,
therefore, no Temple to the Lord might be erected on
19
He points out that, after the destruction of
it.’
Solomon’s Temple in Jerusalem, the Jews carried off
into exile in Babylon ‘were counselled by Jeremiah to
settle down and pray (not sacrifice) to the Lord.’

The

same author then adds: ‘there is no evidence that any

442

Where is the Glory?

*

Temple to YHWH was erected in Babylonia’ and asks:
‘With what justification, then, did the Jews at
Elephantine erect their temple?’
1 1

It seems to

20

me that the answer to Porten’s rhetorical

question is obvious: their justification was that they had

brought with them from Jerusalem the Ark of the
Covenant and that they now needed to build ‘an house
21
of rest’ for it, just as Solomon had done so long before.

Elephantine and the Falashas

When I returned to England I felt quite confident that I had at
uncovered the real sequence of events underlying the
mystery of the lost Ark.
Seeking supporting evidence I went to the School of Oriental
and African Studies in London and acquired copies of the two
out-of-print volumes that Achim Krekeler had lent me, volumes
that I now wanted to examine much more thoroughly. I also
assembled other relevant sources, including The History of
Herodotus (because I had learned that the famous Greek scholar
22
had paid a visit to Elephantine around the year 450 bc ).
This further research effort proved fruitful. One thing that
had been bothering me, for example, was why Josiah - the
zealous traditionalist who had inherited the throne in Jerusalem
two years after Manasseh’s death - had not sought to get the Ark
back from Elephantine. The answer to that question did not
prove difficult to find. As I had already established, Josiah’s
reforms had not started until the twelfth year of his reign (when
he was twenty) and his restoration of the Temple had only begun
23
in the eighteenth year of his reign (622 bc ).
By this time
relations between Judah and Egypt had deteriorated dramatically
- so much so, in fact, that Josiah was ultimately killed fighting the
24
Egyptians.
Even if he had known that the Ark had been taken to
Elephantine, therefore, he would not have been in a position to
enforce its return from a powerful country with which he was at
last

war.

Having satisfied myself on this point I then moved on to
consider the next stage of the lost history that I was attempting to
reconstruct - the journey of the Ark from Elephantine into

Door of the Southern Countries
Ethiopia during the fifth century bc.

443

My interview in Jerusalem

with the Falasha priest Raphael Hadane had raised the intriguing
possibility that the ancestors of Ethiopia’s black Jews might have

been migrants from Elephantine - because there could be no
doubt that he had been speaking of that island when he had told
me that his forefathers had built a temple at Aswan. Moreover
the notion that the Falashas might have reached Ethiopia from
Elephantine was supported by the findings of my own earlier
research. In November 1989 I had been struck by the ‘ethnographic fingerprint’ of Falasha settlement around Lake Tana and
- on the basis of this and other evidence - 1 had concluded that:
the religion of Solomon could only have entered Ethiopia

from the west - through Egypt and the Sudan along the
ancient and well-travelled trade routes provided by the
Nile and Takazze rivers.

For some time before reaching that conclusion I had been
profoundly dissatisfied with the large body of academic opinion
which held that the Falashas were the descendants of Jews from
southern Arabia who had arrived in Ethiopia after ad 70 (see
Chapter 6). Now, as I followed up the bibliography that the social
anthropologist Shalva Weil had dictated to me in Jerusalem, I
discovered that a number of other theories had been put forward
to

challenge

the

prevailing

orthodoxy.

Though

repeatedly

ridiculed by the masters of Ethiopian studies like Professor

Edward Ullendorff, 25 some of the dissenting voices had suggested that the ancestors of the Falashas could well have been

converted to Judaism by migrants from the Jewish colony on the
island of Elephantine.

26

No doubt there had been extensive

commercial and cultural contacts between Yemen and Ethiopia
during this period; the reality was, however, that several quite
substantial Jewish communities had been established in Egypt
for hundreds of years before any Jews had settled in south Arabia.
Given the profoundly Old Testament character of Falasha
religion, therefore, logic suggested that the Jewish faith

must

have been carried south-eastwards from Egypt and into Ethiopia
27
in a gradual process of ‘cultural diffusion’.

To be sure, there were no absolutely unassailable historical

Where is the Glory?

444

»

facts linking the Falashas to Elephantine. I did, however, come

across a great many tantalizing clues and coincidences which

seemed to me to be highly suggestive of such a link. All the
evidence was circumstantial and none of it actually proved my
theory that the Ark had reached Ethiopia in the fifth century bc
after spending two hundred years in the Jewish Temple on
Elephantine. Viewed in the context of everything else that I had
learned, however - in Israel, in Egypt and in Ethiopia itself - my
latest findings took on a different and entirely more persuasive
aspect.

Set out below, as I recorded them in my notebook, are the
principal conclusions that I reached and the evidence on which
they were based:

The fact that the Jewish community at Elephantine
practised sacrifice - and that it continued to do so long

1

after King Josiah’s reforms - is surely highly
significant. One of the proofs of the antiquity of

Judaism in Ethiopia is the extremely archaic character
of Falasha religion, in which animal sacrifice of
'

precisely the kind carried out at Elephantine plays a
28

This adds weight to the hypothesis that
the Falashas are the ‘cultural descendants’ of Jewish
migrants from Elephantine and therefore provides
crucial role.

strong support for the thesis that the Ark of the

Covenant may have been brought to Ethiopia from that
island.

2 In its heyday the Jewish Temple on Elephantine had its

own well established priesthood. In the vowel-less
language of the papyri these priests are referred to as
KHN. 29 This word, of course, becomes kahen when
the vowels ‘a’ and
also called Kahen.
3

V are added. Falasha priests are
30

One of the names given to the Jewish Temple on
Elephantine was MSGD. 31 It meant ‘place of
prostration’.

32

To this day the Falashas in Ethiopia

have no synagogues; neither do they have a temple;
they do, however, call their simple houses of worship

Mesgid 33 (i.e.

MSGD with the vowels

‘e’

and ‘i’ added).

Door of the Southern Countries

445

In this context it is also worthy of note that it was exactly in
a prostrate position, knees to the ground, that King

Solomon once prayed before the Ark of the Covenant of
Yahweh. 34
4 In his interview with me in Jerusalem Raphael Hadane
said that the Jewish Temple built by his forefathers 'at
Aswan’ had been exempted from a great destruction that
had been inflicted upon Egyptian temples by a 'foreign
king’:

'he did not destroy our temple. So when the Egyptians

saw that only the Jewish temple was not destroyed they
suspected that we were on the side of the invader.
Because of this they started to fight against us and they
destroyed our temple and we were forced to flee.’
In 5 25 bc a foreign king did invade Egypt and did indeed

destroy many temples. 35 His name was Cambyses and he

was the ruler of the expansionist Persian Empire that had
been founded by his father Cyrus the Great. The
Elephantine papyri preserve this recollection of him:

when Cambyses came into Egypt he found this [Jewish]
Temple built. They [the Persians] knocked down all the
temples of the gods of Egypt, but no one did any damage
to this Temple.

36

The Persians remained in power in Egypt until very close
to the end of the fifth century bc. During this period the

Jews on Elephantine co-operated closely with them. It
was after their protection had been effectively removed
that the Jewish Temple on that island was finally
destroyed. 37 Raphael Hadane’s folk traditions about the
origins of the Falashas are therefore borne out by
established historical facts.
5

Hadane also reported that his people especially venerated
the island of Tana Kirkos - the same island to which I was
told the Ark had been brought in the fifth century bc.

Moreover, Memhir Fisseha, the Christian priest whom I

446

Where is the Glory?

'

interviewed on that island, told me that the Ark had been

kept there ‘inside a tent’ for eight hundred years before

being taken to Axum. 38 It seems to me hardly surprising
that a tent or ‘tabernacle’ might have been used on T ana
Kirkos to shelter the Ark. If my theory is correct then the
Jews who brought the relic there had just experienced the
destruction of their own Temple on Elephantine and

would have known also of the earlier destruction of
Solomon’s Temple by Nebuchadnezzar. They could well
have decided that it was time to abandon formal temples
for ever and to return to the pure tradition of the desert
wanderings when the Ark had always been housed in a
tent.

6 Last but not least, Raphael Hadane told me that the
ancestors of the Falashas reached Ethiopia not only by

way of Aswan (i.e. Elephantine) but also that they passed
through the city of Meroe ‘where they remained for a
short while’. These same two places were also named by
Solomon Alemu, the Falasha priest whom I interviewed at
the village of Anbober in January 1 990. Can it be a
'
coincidence that, after being lost to history for more than
1 ,500 years, the ruins of Meroe were finally unearthed by
-guess who? Answer: they were discovered in 1772 by
the Scottish explorer James Bruce. 39

The land of the Deserters
All this, I felt, very strongly suggested that I was on the right track

- and the fact that the site of ancient Meroe had been discovered
by none other than my old friend James Bruce only served to
quicken my enthusiasm for the chase. The Scottish explorer, I
was sure, had made his epic journey to Ethiopia in order to locate
the Ark of the Covenant (see Chapter 7). How appropriate
therefore that he should also have located the fabled city through
which the sacred relic had passed on its journey to the Abyssinian
highlands.

But had it really passed that way? There was still, it seemed to
me, one vital question that I had not yet satisfactorily answered:

Door of the Southern Countries

447

why should the Jews of Elephantine have migrated to the south
with the Ark of the Covenant after they left the island? Why not

head north - back towards Israel, for example?
I found that there were several possible explanations for this,
all of which could have played a role. For a start, by the fifth
century bc, the Jews in Jerusalem had got used to living without
the Ark. Solomon’s Temple was long gone and a new one had
been built to replace it. This Second Temple, furthermore, was
administered by an entrenched priesthood which would
definitely not have welcomed competitors from Elephantine.
By the same token, the Elephantine Jews would have felt alien
and out of place in the theological environment afforded by
Jerusalem in the fifth century bc. Religious thinking had moved
on, God was no longer thought of as the quasi-corporeal deity
who had dwelled ‘between the cherubims’, and the forms of
worship in which the Ark had once occupied centre stage had
been largely abandoned.

The return of the relic would, therefore, have led to many
potentially catastrophic problems.

It

would have been quite

obvious to the Elephantine priesthood that in order to avoid these

problems they would have to stay away from Jerusalem. But
where could they go instead? Clearly, they could not remain in
Egypt, since the Egyptians had turned against them and
destroyed their Temple. Nor, for the same reason, could they
have been sure of safe passage if they had chosen to travel north in
order to leave that country. A logical solution, therefore, would
have been to turn towards the south. It was not without good
reason that the Governor of Aswan and Elephantine was titled
40
‘Governor of the Door of the Southern Countries’. In order to
take their precious relic to safety the Jews would only have
needed to open that metaphorical ‘door’ and head off into those
‘Southern Countries’, which were known collectively as
‘Ethiopia’ - a Greek word meaning ‘burnt faces’ applied at that
41
time to all areas in which dark-skinned people lived.
The fugitives would by no means have been venturing forth
into a terrifying terra incognita. On the contrary, there was direct
evidence that members of the Jewish community had been
involved in military expeditions far to the south as early as the
sixth century bc

42
.

Furthermore, I discovered well documented

,

448

Where is the Glory?

- migrations

had not
necessarily involved Jews but that had seen large numbers of
people from the Aswan area travelling and settling in ‘the
Southern Countries’. For example, Herodotus, the ‘father of
History’, reported that four days’ journey beyond Elephantine
the river Nile ceased to be navigable:
instances of previous migrations

that

You will then disembark and travel along the bank for
forty days, for there are sharp rocks in the Nile and many
reefs through which you will be unable to sail. Having

marched through this country in forty days, you will
embark again in another boat and sail for twelve days, and
then you will come to a great city, the name of which is
Meroe. This city is said to be the mother of all Ethiopia
From this city, making a voy age of the same length of
sailing as you did from Elephantine to the mother city of
.

.

.

the Ethiopians, you will come to the land of the
Deserters

.

.

.

These were two hundred and forty thousand

Egyptians, fighter Egyptians, who revolted from the

Egyptians and joined the Ethiopians ... in the time of

King Psammetichus. When these people had settled
among the Ethiopians, the Ethiopians became more
civilised, through learning the manner of the Egyptians.
For four months of travel space, then, sailing and road,
beyond its course in Egypt, the Nile is a known country.
If you add all together, you will find that it takes four
months ofjourneying from Elephantine to these Deserters of

whom I spoke 43
mass exodus of ‘the Deserters’ from
Elephantine had not necessarily involved Jews, and I could find
no proof that it had. Herodotus had stated very clearly, however,
that this exodus had occurred in the time of the Pharaoh
Psammetichus (595-589 bc 44 ). I was therefore excited to learn
from an impeccable source that ‘Jews had been sent out as
auxiliaries to fight in the army of Psammetichus against the King
of the Ethiopians.’ 45 On the basis of this well documented
I

said earlier that the

historical fact it did not seem unreasonable to conclude that there

might indeed have been some Jews amongst the Deserters.

Door of the Southern Countries

449

Another aspect of the Herodotus report which I found
intriguing was that it made specific mention of Meroe - through
which, according to Raphael Hadane, the forefathers of the
Falashas had passed on their way to Abyssinia. Moreover,
Herodotus had gone to considerable lengths to explain that his
‘Deserters’ had lived a full fifty-six days’ sail beyond Meroe. If this
journey had been made on the Atbara river, which flows into the
Nile just to the north of Meroe (and into which, in turn, the

Takazze also flows) then it would have brought the traveller as far
as the borders of modern Ethiopia, and perhaps across those
borders.

46

Herodotus had written his report in the fifth century bc. It
followed that if a group of Jews bearing the Ark of the Covenant
had chosen to flee southwards from Elephantine in that same
century then they would have passed through ‘known country’
almost all the way to Lake Tana. Moreover, simple logic
suggested that the Abyssinian highlands could have been an
attractive destination for them - cool and well watered, these
green mountains would surely have looked like a Garden of Eden
by comparison with the deserts of the Sudan.

Beyond the rivers of Cush
Could the fugitives from Elephantine have had foreknowledge of
this ‘garden beyond the wilderness’? Was it possible that in
making their journey to the south they might not only have
been travelling through ‘known country’ but also going towards a
land in which they already had kin and co-religionists? As my
research progressed I did find evidence to suggest that this was
indeed possible and that Jews could well have ventured into
Abyssinia at dates even earlier than the fifth century bc.
Part of this evidence was biblical. Though I knew that the use

of the word ‘Ethiopia’ in the Scriptures could not automatically
be assumed to refer to the country now going by that name, I also
knew that there were circumstances in which it might have done.

As noted above, ‘Ethiopia’ is a Greek word meaning ‘burnt
faces’. In the earliest Greek editions of the Bible, the Hebrew
term ‘Cush’ was translated as ‘Ethiopia’ and was used to refer, as
one leading authority put it, to ‘the entire Nile Valley south of

450

Where is the Glory?

*

IS.

Egypt, including Nubia and Abyssinia’.

47

What this meant was

that biblical references to ‘Ethiopia’ might or might not refer to

Abyssinia proper. Likewise, in English translations that had
reverted to the use of the word ‘Cush’, Abyssinia might or might

not have been implied.
In this context it seemed to me at least worthy of note that
Moses himself had married an ‘Ethiopian woman’ 48 - according
to an undeniably ancient verse in the book of Numbers. Added to

was the curious testimony of the Jewish historian Flavius
Josephus - supported by several Jewish legends - which asserted
that between his fortieth and eightieth years the prophet had
this

lived for some time in ‘Ethiopia’. 49

Other passages in the Scriptures also referred to ‘Ethiopia’/
‘Cush’. Many were plainly irrelevant to my interests. Some,
however, were intriguing and raised the possibility that the
scribes responsible for them had not had Nubia or any part of the
Sudan in mind but rather the mountainous land in the Horn of
Africa that we call ‘Ethiopia’ today.

One such, with which I was already familiar, occurred in the
second chapter of the book of Genesis and referred to the rivers
that flowed out of the Garden of Eden: ‘And the name of the
second river is Gihon; the same is it that compasseth the whole
land of Ethiopia.’

50

A glance at a map showed me that there was a

very real sense in which the Blue Nile, sweeping out from Lake
Tana in a wide loop, did indeed compass ‘the whole land of
Ethiopia’. Moreover, as I had been aware for some time,

51

the

twin springs regarded as the source of that great river are known
to this day as Giyon by the Ethiopians themselves.

52

Another interesting passage occurred in Psalm 68, described
by Jon D. Levenson, Associate Professor of the Hebrew Bible in
the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, as ‘one of the
oldest pieces of Israelite poetry’. 53 This psalm included a cryptic
reference to the Ark of the Covenant 54 and also made the
following strange prediction: ‘Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her
hands unto God.’ 55 I could not help but wonder why Ethiopia
had been given prominence in this way as a likely candidate for
conversion to the religion of Israel. Unfortunately, there was
nothing in the psalm itself which helped to answer this question.
However, in a passage written somewhat later by the prophet
Amos (whose ministry lasted from 783 to 743 bc 56 ), there were

Door of the Southern Countries
indications that something so

451

momentous had happened in

Ethiopia/ Cush that the inhabitants of that distant land were now
to be

regarded as being on a par with the ‘Chosen People’ of

Israel. Three different translations of the same verse (Amos 9:7)

help to illustrate what I mean:

Are ye not as

Are not you

Are not you

children of the

and the Cushites

Israelites

Ethiopians unto

all the

me, O children

me, sons of

to me? says

of Israel?

Israel? - it

the Lord. (New

saith the

is

Yahweh who

English

Lord. (King James

speaks, flerusalem

Bible)

Authorized

Bible)

same to

like Cushites

Version)

While I realized that it would be possible to interpret this verse
in another way - i.e. to understand from it that the children of
Israel were no longer to be accorded any special privileges by
Yahweh - it seemed to me that the more obvious reading also had
to be considered. By the eighth century bc, when Amos was
prophesying, was it not conceivable that there could already have
been a flow of Hebrew migrants southwards through Egypt and
into the highlands of Abyssinia? There was no proof for this
admittedly wild speculation. It was an undeniable fact, however,
that out of all the vast swathe of territory that Amos could have

been referring to when he spoke of Ethiopia/Cush, only one
specific area was known to have adopted the Judaic faith in
antiquity (and, moreover, to have adhered to that faith right up
until the twentieth century ad). That area, of course, lay in the
vicinity of Lake Tana, the Falasha homeland since time
immemorial.
The next biblical passage that caught my attention was in the
book of Zephaniah, and had been written at some time between
640 and 622 bc 57 - i.e. during the reign of Kingjosiah. Again I

452

Where is the Glory?

found it helpful to view side by side three separate translations of
the same verse (Zephaniah 3:10), .which supposedly quoted the
words of the Lord:

From beyond

From beyond the

From beyond the

the rivers of

banks of the

rivers of Cush

Ethiopia my

rivers of

suppliants of

suppliants,

Ethiopia my

the Dispersion

even the

suppliants will

shall bring

daughter of my

bring me

tribute. (New

dispersed,

offerings.

English Bible)

shall bring

(Jerusalem

mine offering.

Bible)

my

me

(King James
Authorized
Version)

Since there was absolutely no doubt that this verse had been
written before 622 bc - and thus well before the exile and
captivity of the Israelites in Babylon - it was pertinent to ask the

following questions:

1

When Zephaniah had referred to a ‘dispersion’ what
event exactly had he been talking about?

2

Which part of biblical ‘Cush’ had he had in mind when
he had envisaged the suppliants of the Lord bringing
offerings ‘from beyond the rivers of Ethiopia’?

In answer to the

first

question,

I

had to conclude that the

prophet had been talking about some kind of voluntary popular
migration, because there had been no enforced ‘dispersion’ of
the Hebrews from the Holy Land prior to Zephaniah’s time. As
regards the second question, the reader will recall that the
biblical term ‘Cush’ connoted ‘the entire Nile Valley, south of
Egypt, including Nubia and Abyssinia’. The verse quoted above,
however, contained internal evidence which helped to narrow
down the precise geographical area that Zephaniah had been
speaking of. That evidence lay in the phrase variously translated

Door of the Southern Countries

453

as ‘beyond the rivers of Ethiopia’. Since more than one river was

involved, the Nile Valley as far south as Meroe could be ruled
out. East of Meroe, however, flowed the Atbara, and beyond that

the Takazze, while to the south (roughly parallel to the Atbara)
the Blue Nile rushed down from Abyssinia. These, surely, were
the rivers of Ethiopia, and beyond all of them lay Lake Tana. The

prophet had had the traditional area of
Falasha settlement in mind when he had written this intriguing
verse could not, therefore, be entirely dismissed.
My feeling that there might be something to this speculation
strengthened when I ran a computer check and discovered that
the phrase ‘beyond the rivers of Ethiopia/Cush’ had only been
used on one other occasion in the entire Bible. The King James
Authorized Version translated the relevant passage (from
Chapter 18 of the book of Isaiah) as follows:
possibility that the

Woe to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond
the rivers of Ethiopia: That sendeth ambassadors by the
sea, even in vessels of bulrushes upon the waters, saying,

Go, ye swift messengers, to a nation scattered and
peeled, to a people terrible from their beginning hitherto;
a nation meted out and trodden down, whose land the
rivers have spoiled!

58

The other translations of the same passage, which I reproduce
below side by side, added further shades of meaning to an already
rich and haunting message:

Country of whirring wings

There is a land of

beyond the rivers of Cush,

sailing ships, a land

who send ambassadors by

beyond the rivers of

sea, in papyrus skiffs

Cush which sends its

over the waters. Go, swift

envoys by the Nile,

messengers to a people

journeying on the waters

tall and bronzed, to a

in vessels of reed. Go,

swift messengers, go to a

people tall and smooth-

454

Where is the Glory?

%

nation always feared, a

skinned, to a people

people mighty and

dreaded near and far, a

masterful, in the country

nation strong and proud,

criss-crossed with

whose land is scoured

rivers. (Jerusalem Bible)

by rivers.

(New English Bible)
Falling as

it

did in Chapter 18 of the book of Isaiah,

it

was

certain that this passage had been written by Isaiah himself. 59

This meant, of course, that it could be accurately dated to his
60
had been a long one,
lifetime which, as I already knew,
spanning the reigns of Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah (respectively
61
740-736 bc, 736-716 bc and 716-687 bc ). In fact, the
prophet had almost certainly survived into the reign of
Manasseh, the monarch whose idolatry, I was now quite certain,
had led to the removal of the Ark of the Covenant from the Holy
of Holies of the Jerusalem Temple. I was therefore interested to
learn of a strong and ancient Jewish tradition which held that
62
Isaiah had died a martyr at the hands of Manasseh himself.
What I found even more interesting was the way in which the
prophet had spoken of the mysterious land that lay ‘beyond the
rivers of Cush’. The Kingjames Authorized Version of the Bible
suggested that he had cursed this land but the more recent
translations conveyed no such impression. All three renderings,
however, did agree on its geographical character: not only was it
located ‘beyond’ rivers, but also it was itself ‘spoiled’, or
‘scoured’, or ‘criss-crossed’ by rivers.
In

my view, this information made it virtually certain that

Isaiah

had been referring

to

Abyssinia and to the area of

traditional Falasha settlement there.

The high country around

Lake Tana is indeed ‘criss-crossed’ by rivers (which also spoil
and scour it by carrying away huge quantities of its precious topsoil). There were other clues as well:

1

The inhabitants of the land were said to be tall and
‘peeled’, or ‘smooth-skinned’, or - in the authoritative

Jerusalem Bible translation - ‘bronzed’. This, I
thought, was a description that could easily be applied

Door of the Southern Countries

455

to modern Ethiopians, whose glowing, chestnut-brown

complexions are quite distinct from the ‘black’, negroid
skin tones found in other African countries.
2 The land was curiously described as ‘shadowing with
wings’ (or more directly as a ‘country of whirring wings’).
This, I felt, might very well be a reference to the giant
locust swarms that, every decade or so, lay waste Ethiopia,
overshadowing the fields of the peasants and filling the air
with a dry whirring sound that sends shivers down the
spine.
3 Finally Isaiah had made specific mention of the fact that
the messengers of the land travelled in ‘vessels of

bulrushes’ or in‘papyrus skiffs’, or in ‘vessels of reed’. To
this day, as I was very well aware, those who dwell around

the vast inland sea of Lake Tana make extensive use of

papyrus-reed boats known as tankwas 63
.

All in

all,

therefore,

I

felt that

the biblical data did lend a

considerable degree of credibility to the view that some kind of
relationship might have been established between Israel and the

Abyssinian highlands at a very early date. Moses’s Ethiopian

and Zephaniah’s ‘dispersed’ suppliants - who would return to Jerusalem ‘from
beyond the rivers of Cush’ - all made it very difficult to resist the
suspicion that Hebrews had been travelling to Ethiopia, and
wife, Isaiah’s ‘people tall and bronzed’,

probably settling there, long before the fifth century bc. If, as I
suspected, the Jewish priests of Elephantine had brought the Ark

of the Covenant to the island of Tana Kirkos in that same century
then it followed that they would have been coming to a land in

which

their co-religionists

had already established a secure

foothold.

Waves of migration?
Outside the Bible was there any evidence at all which might
support this hypothesis? I felt that there was. The research that I
myself had conducted in Ethiopia during 1989-90, for example,
had already raised the possibility that there might have been
successive waves of Hebrew migration over an immense span of

6

45

1

Where is the Glory?

time extending back into the remotest antiquity. Most strongly
suggestive of this had been the long interview that

I

had

conducted with Wambar Muluna Marsha, High Priest of the
‘Hebraeo-Pagan’ Qemant (see Chapter 1 ). He had told me that
Anayer, the founder of his religion, had come to the Lake Tana
area from ‘the land of Canaan’. When I had made a closer
examination of Qemant religion I had established that it
contained a peculiar mixture of pagan and Jewish practices - the
latter reflected particularly in the distinctions between ‘clean’
and ‘unclean’ foods - coupled with a reverence for ‘sacred
groves’ which bore a close resemblance to the very earliest forms
of Judaism (the patriarch Abraham had ‘planted a grove in
64
Beersheba,’ and had ‘called there on the name of the Lord’.
Such tendencies had probably been quite widespread during the
early period of Israelite settlement in Canaan, and had enjoyed a
brief resurgence during Manasseh’s reign, but had been
thoroughly and finally stamped out by Kingjosiah in the seventh
century bc.

The implication was that the forefathers of the Qemant must
have migrated to Ethiopia from Canaan at a very early date. By
contrast the Falashas looked like the descendants of slightly more
recent migrants. Their religion included certain practices also
banned by Kingjosiah - notably animal sacrifice at local shrines
- but otherwise looked like a rather pure form of Old Testament
Judaism (and was certainly not adulterated with any obviously

pagan beliefs).
Neighbours in the mountains and valleys around Lake Tana,
the Qemant and the Falashas maintained that they were related
to each other (Wambar Muluna Marsha had told me that the
founding family of his religion and the founding family of the
Falasha religion had travelled ‘on the same journey’ and had
discussed a possible marriage alliance - which they had ultimately failed to make).

Such folklore, as I subsequently established, did reflect an
ethnographic truth. The Falashas and the Qemant were indeed

both were sub-sections of the great Agaw tribe of
western central Ethiopia 65 - an ethnic group considered to
represent the oldest stratum of population in the Horn of
66
Africa.
Because of this, the mother-tongue of both peoples was
relatives:

Door of the Southern Countries

457

a dialect of Agaw, classified, interestingly enough, as belonging
to the ‘Cushitic’ group of languages.

67

Semitic tongues related to

Hebrew and Arabic (for example, Amharic and Tigrigna) were
also present in Ethiopia but were not spoken (except as second

languages) either by the Falashas or by the Qemant.

The explanation for this anomaly, and the deductions that
flowed logically from it, seemed to me to be obvious. I wrote in

my notebook:
The first small bands of Hebrews must have begun to
migrate from Israel to Ethiopia a very long time ago. I
suspect that this process started as early as the tenth

century bc (perhaps even earlier) and that it continued at
least until the end of the fifth century bc.

On their arrival

in the Lake Tana area the migrants would have found

themselves amongst the oldest-established inhabitants of
Ethiopia - such as the Agaw - and would have

intermarried with them, thus gradually losing their own
distinct ethnic identity. At the same time, however, they

would have passed on the Judaic faith and culture that
they had brought with them. In this fashion, by say the
second or first century bc, there would have been no
more ‘Hebrews’ as such living in Ethiopia, only
‘Hebraized’ or ‘Judaized’ peoples who to all other intents

and purposes would have looked like native Ethiopians
and who would, of course, have spoken a native Ethiopian
language (Hebrew having long since been forgotten). The

modern descendants of these ‘Hebraized’ or ‘Judaized’
peoples are the Qemant and the Falashas - the black Jews
of Ethiopia - and their mother-tongue, a dialect of Agaw,
is

indeed a native Cushitic language.
And what about the ‘Semitic’ peoples of Ethiopia such

as the politically dominant Christian Amharas? Almost

certainly they are, as the ethnographers maintain, the

descendants of Sabaean/South Arabian settlers who
moved into the highlands in separate and somewhat later
waves of immigration. Judaism in one form or another
was probably quite well established amongst indigenous

Agaw groups by the time that these Sabaean conquerors

458

Where is the Glory?

arrived - which would explain why their cultures, too, were

gradually ‘Judaized’ and whyjudaic elements survive to this

day in the curiously Old Testament character of Abyssinian
Christianity.

‘There were always Jews in Ethiopia, from the beginning,’
wrote the Portuguese Jesuit Balthaza Tellez in the
seventeenth century.

68

In this judgement he was, I suspect,

far closer to the truth than those modern scholars who

ascribe a relatively late date to the arrival ofJudaism - and

who seem to be completely blind to all the evidence that
runs contrary to their own prejudices.

The mysterious ‘BRs’
While possessing the merit of explaining a great deal that hitherto
had never been properly explained, I was well aware of a potential
weakness in the theory that I had just oudined in my notebook:
might it not reflect my own prejudices rather than the facts? To be
sure, it was a fact that the Falashas practised an archaic form of
Judaism; likewise it was a fact that Qemant religion contained
many ancient Hebraic elements; and in a similar fashion it was a
fact that the Christianity of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church was
riddled through and through with practices that were unmistakably Judaic in origin. But from all this was it legitimate to
conclude that there had been waves of Hebrew immigration into
Ethiopia for hundreds of years before the fifth century bc when, as I believed, the Ark of the Covenant had been brought
from the island of Elephantine on the upper Nile to the island of
Tana Kirkos? If I was right, and if there had indeed been prior
Hebrew settlement in that area, then there would no longer be
any mystery about why Ethiopia (rather than some other country)
had been chosen as the last resting place of the Ark.
But was I right? Thus far the evidence that I had gathered in
support of my evolving theory had taken two distinctly different
forms: (i) social and ethnographic data about the Falashas and
the Qemant, notably concerning their religious beliefs, their
folklore and their relationships to one another; ( 2 ) clues,
scattered throughout the Old Testament, which seemed to bear
witness to some kind of sustained Hebrew migration to Abyssinia

Door of the Southern Countries

459

in the first half of the first millennium bc. If there had really been

such a migra tion, however, then surely there would be proof of it
outside the Bible and outside the observed peculiarities of
Falasha and Qemant culture? The impressionistic material that I
had already gathered was strongly suggestive, but what I really
needed in order to make a complete case was tangible
archaeological or documentary evidence of Hebrew settlement
in Ethiopia prior to the fifth century bc.
I

had never come across such evidence and I knew that I was

swimming against the current of scholarly opinion in seeking for
now. Nevertheless I put out feelers to my contacts in the
academic world in an attempt to discover whether there was
anything of importance that I might have missed.
Not long afterwards I received through the mail a paper
written in French by a certain Jacqueline Pirenne and published
in
1989 by the Universite des sciences humaines de
69
The paper had been sent to me by a professor of
Strasbourg.
Egyptology at a major British university. In his covering note who
it

said:

Just a line to enclose a photocopy of an article by

Jacqueline Pirenne, given at a recent conference in
Strasburg.
Frankly, from a scholarly point of view, I consider she’s

gone ‘way over the top’; she’s undoubtedly a very able
person, knows her ancient Arabian documentation, but
has (for not a few of us) improbable ideas on anc. Arabian
chronology & script origin. This essay is fascinating, but

more fiction than history, I fear. (Beeston, I gather,
criticised it heavily at a recent meeting of the Seminar for

Arabian Studies; he’s pre-eminently sane, though no
more infallible than the rest of us.)

wondered why the professor should have thought that
a paper by someone who knew her ‘ancient Arabian docuI naturally

mentation’ could possibly be of any relevance to

my own

had had the paper translated into English,
however, I could see exactly why he had thought that, and I was
also able to understand why members of the academic
research. After

I

460

Where is the Glory?

establishment had reacted with hostility to Jacqueline Pirenne’s
views.

To strip a rather complex thesis down to its bare essentials, the
main thrust of her argument was that scholars who had examined
the historical relationship between Ethiopia and South Arabia
had been completely wrong: far from Sabaean influences
reaching Ethiopia from the Yemen, as had previously been
supposed, the flow had in fact been in the opposite direction, in
other words from Ethiopia to South Arabia:
arrived first of all in Ethiopian Tigray
The Sabaeans
This
and entered Yemen via the Red Sea coast
.

.

.

.

.

.

conclusion, which is the absolute contrary to all

recognized views, is the only one ... to explain the facts

and do them justice. 70
Pirenne then went on to demonstrate that the original homeland
of the Sabaeans had been in north-west Arabia but that large

numbers of them had emigrated from there to Ethiopia (Via the
Hammamat river bed and along the Nile’) in two separate waves,
the first around 690 bc and the second around 590 bc. Why had
they emigrated? In order to avoid paying tribute to the Assyrian

invader Sennacherib on the first occasion and in order to avoid

paying tribute to the Babylonian conqueror Nebuchadnezzar on
the second.
This thesis was not as far-fetched as it sounded: during their
respective campaigns Sennacherib and Nebuchadnezzar had not

confined themselves to their famous attacks on Jerusalem; it was
a fact that they had also pressed on into north-west Arabia, where

they might indeed have encountered and displaced Sabaean
tribes. This

much I already knew. I did not feel, however, that I

was in a position either to condemn or condone the rest of
Pirenne’s argument, namely that her fugitive Sabaeans had
reached Ethiopia by following the Nile Valley and then had
migrated onwards from there across the Red Sea and into the
Yemen.
Nor was this argument, interesting though it was, central to
Pirenne’s importance for my own investigation. What caught my
eye, and finally convinced me that I was on the right track, was

Door of the Southern Countries

461

her analysis of a Sabaean inscription found in Ethiopia and dated
to the sixth century bc. Translated by the linguist R. Schneider

and originally published in an obscure paper entitled ‘Documents epigraphiques de l’Ethiopie’, 71 this inscription honoured
a Sabaean monarch who described himself as a ‘noble fighter
king’ and boasted that in the empire he had established in the
north and west of Ethiopia, he had reigned ‘over Da’amat, the
72
Sabas, and over the ‘BRs, the whites and the blacks.’ Who were
the ‘BRs, Pirenne asked:

R. Schneider did not venture any interpretation

but
the term, witnessed in Assyrian inscriptions - theAbirus
.

.

.

- may be attributed to the Hebrews ... It is natural that

Hebrews would have emigrated at the same time as the
second wave of Sabaeans, since the first capture of
followed by
Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar
deportation to Babylon, was in 598 bc, whereas the
attacks of the same Nebuchadnezzar against the Arabs
were in 599-598 bc
Identification of the ‘BRs as
‘Hebrews’ who arrived [in Ethiopia] with the second wave
of Sabaeans explains ... the existence of the Falashas,
They are the descendants of these
black but Jewish
‘Hebrews’ who arrived in the sixth century bc 73
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

What Pirenne had not given any consideration to was the
possibility that the ‘BRs’ - a standard way of writing the word

‘Hebrews’ (i.e. ABIRUS) in early alphabets lacking in vowels might have arrived in Ethiopia before any of the Sabaean
incursions. She had simply deduced, because the inscription that
mentioned them had been dated to the sixth century bc, that they
must have migrated in that century. On the basis of my own
research, however, I now felt very confident in concluding that
the ‘BRs’ over whom the Sabaean conquerors had claimed
suzereinty could well have been in Ethiopia for some considerable while before that - and, moreover, that their numbers were
still being added to at that time (and afterwards) by the arrival via
the Nile Valley of more small bands of Hebrew immigrants.
This latter point was still in the realm of theory; Jacqueline
Pirenne’s gift to me, however, lay in the fact that she had drawn

462

Where is the Glory?

my attention to definite archaeological and documentary proof of
the existence in Ethiopia, in the sixth century bc, of a people
called the ‘BRs’. Academics might argue until eternity about who

these ‘BRs’ really were, but I myself was no longer in any doubt:

• they had been Hebrews who, at that early stage, had
not yet submerged their identity with that of the

indigenous Agaw amongst whom they had settled;

• they had worshipped a God called YHWH;
• in consequence, when the Ark of the Covenant of
Yahweh was brought from Elephantine to Ethiopia in
the fifth century bc there was a very real sense in
which it could be said to have arrived in a receptive and
appropriate resting place.

A chapel of mischance
There remained very little more for me to do. Throughout a long
and circuitous historical investigation I had been trying to satisfy
myself that there might be genuine merit to Ethiopia’s claim to
possess the lost Ark.

had done that now. I was well aware that scholars might
dispute my findings, and the conclusions that I had drawn from
them - but, really, the approval of the ‘experts’ and the
‘authorities’ was not what I had sought during 1989 and 1990.
Instead my goal had been an inner one in which I alone had been
the judge and final arbiter of all the evidence and of all the
I

arguments.

The central issue had been simple: to journey to the ancient
Tigrayan city of Axum, and to the sanctuary chapel in which the
Ark was supposed to lie, I would have to be prepared to accept
physical risks and also to overcome a profound spiritual unease at
the thought of putting myself into the hands of the TPLF armed rebels who had good cause to hate me because of the cosy
links that I had hitherto enjoyed with the very government that
they were shedding blood to overthrow. I had not been prepared
to accept those risks, or to struggle to master my own fears, unless
I could first convince myself that in so doing I would be

Door of the Southern Countries

463

embarking on an adventure that was neither foolish nor quixotic
but rather one that I could believe in and to which I could

commit myself.
I

now did believe that there was a very high degree of probability

that the Ark might indeed lie in Axum, and I was therefore prepared
to

commit myself absolutely to the last stage of my quest - the

journey to 'the sacred city of the Ethiopians’ with all the risks and

dangers and difficulties that that would entail.

This was not a decision that I had arrived at lightly; on the
contrary, over the previous months, I had determinedly sought
out every excuse that might possibly have justified the abandonment of the whole chancy project. Instead of finding such
excuses, however, I had only stumbled upon more and more
clues that appeared to point unerringly in the direction of Axum.
I had looked for alternative resting places for the Ark, but none
of those that legend or tradition offered had seemed in the least
bit likely. I had looked for proofs that the relic might have been
destroyed, but no such proofs existed. I had established that the
Kebra Nagasfs claims about Solomon, Sheba and Menelik could
not literally be true - only to discover that these same claims
might well serve as a complex metaphor for the truth. Certainly,
the Ark of the Covenant could not have gone to Ethiopia in the
era of Solomon; but it was entirely plausible that it might have

made that journey later, at the time of the destruction of the
Jewish Temple that had stood on the island of Elephantine in the
upper Nile.
All in

all,

therefore, whatever the academics might think,

I

knew that I had reached the end of a long personal road and that I
could not any more put off or avoid the final reckoning: if I was to
preserve any sense of my own integrity, if I was not in later years
to feel dishonoured and ashamed, then I would have to do
level best to reach

my

Axum - no matter the risks that I would have to

run, no matter the demons of self-interest and cowardice that I

would have to overcome. It was a cliche - perhaps one of the
oldest cliches known to man - but it seemed to me that what
really counted was not so much that I should attain the sacred city
but rather that I should try to get there, not so much that I should
actually find the Ark but rather that I should find within myself
sufficient reserves of character to make the attempt.

464
I

Where is the Glory?
was, in my own eyes, far from being an Arthurian knight clad

in shining armour. Nevertheless, at this moment in my life, I had

no difficulty in understanding why Sir Gawain, on his way to the
perils that awaited him at the Green Chapel, had chosen to
ignore the siren song of the squire who had sought to dissuade
him from completing his quest and who had warned him:
therefore good Sir
come there you’ll be killed
ride by another route, to some region remote!
Gawain
Go in the name of God, and Christ grace your fortune!
‘if you

.

.

.

.

.

.

And I shall go home again and undertake to swear
solemnly, by God and his saints as well, stoutly to keep
your secret, not saying to a soul that you ever tried to turn
tail.’

74

After considering his position, Gawain had replied:

worthy of you to wish for my well being, man, and I
believe you would loyally lock it in your heart. But
however quiet you kept it, if I quit this place, fled ... in
the fashion you propose, I should become a cowardly
knight with no excuse whatever ... I will go to the Green
Chapel, to get what Fate sends.’ 75
‘It is

With just such resolve, though with less chivalry, I was now
determined that I must go to my own ‘chapel of mischance’ 76 to
find there whatever Fate might send me. And, like Sir Gawain, I
knew that I would have to make that journey at the dawn of a New
Year - for the solemn feast of Timkat fast approached.

Part VI: Ethiopia, 1990-9

The Waste Land

Chapter 17

Supping with Devils

After my trips to Israel and Egypt I returned to England in

October 1990 with my mind made up: I would have to go to
Axum, and the optimum time to travel there would be in January
1 99 1 If I could arrive before the 1 8th of that month then I would
be able to participate in the Timkat ceremony, during which I
hoped that the Ark itself would be carried in public procession.
Raphael Hadane, the Falasha priest whom I had interviewed
in Jerusalem, had doubted whether the genuine article would
actually be used: 'I do not believe that the Christians would ever
bring out the true Ark,’ he had told me, ‘they would not do that.
.

They will never show it to anyone. They will use a replica
instead.’ Coming as it had from a man who had himself
journeyed to Axum in the hope of seeing the sacred relic, this
warning bothered me a great deal. Nevertheless I saw no
alternative but to go ahead with my plan - and that meant
confronting my own fears.

With Ethiopia’s civil war continuing to go against the government there would no longer be any doubt that I would have to put
myself into the hands of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front if I
was serious about getting to Axum. Over the years I knew that
they had taken dozens of foreigners into the areas they controlled
without the slightest harm coming to anyone. I, however, was
terribly afraid that harm might come to me. Why?
The answer to this question lay in the close links that I had
established with the Ethiopian regime over the period 1983-9.
At the end of 1982 I had abandoned journalism, my former
occupation, and had set up a publishing company of my own, the
purpose of which was to produce books and other documentation

468

The Waste Land

wide range of clients, including a number of African
governments. One of my earliest deals had been with the
Ethiopian Tourism Commission; indeed, as reported in Chapter
it had been that deal that had taken me to Axum in the first
1
place, way back in 1983.
The result had been a coffee-table book which had been liked
by senior members of the Ethiopian government and which had
led to the commissioning of several similar projects. In the
process I had met and got to know many powerful people:
Shimelis Mazengia, the Head of Ideology, other Politburo and
Central Committee activists including Berhanu Bayih and Kassa
Kebede, and last but by no means least Ethiopia’s so-called 'Red
Emperor’, President Mengistu Haile Mariam himself - the
military strong-man who had seized control of the country in the
mid 1 970s and whose reputation for ruthless suppression of
dissent was virtually without parallel anywhere in Africa.
There is a sense in which when you work closely with people
you gradually begin to see things their way. This happened to me
during the 1980s and, by the second half of the decade, I was one
of the Ethiopian government’s staunchest supporters. Though I
never approved of that government’s use of domestic repression,
I managed quite successfully to persuade myself that particular
initiatives taken by it were justified and helpful. Notable amongst
these was the policy of resettlement inaugurated in 1984-5 with
the goal of moving more than a million peasants from faminestricken Tigray (then still under government control) to virgin
lands in the south and west of the country. At the time I was
convinced that this 'was necessary’ because vast areas of the
north had become ‘uninhabitable wastelands on the verge of
for a

,

1

total, irreversible

ecological collapse.’

2

The political leaders of

the TPLF, however, looked at resettlement in quite a different

way, seeing it as a grave threat to the rebellion that they were then
desperately attempting to consolidate. The real aim underlying
this ‘sinister’ policy, they were convinced, was to deprive them of
vital

grass-roots support in their

own home

region (since,

obviously, every peasant removed from Tigray represented one
less potential recruit for the Front).

By backing resettlement, therefore - and I did so publicly on a
number of occasions - I had worked directly and explicitly

Supping with Devils
against the interests of the

469

TPLF. Moreover I had identified

myself closely with the Ethiopian government in other ways as
well. After several meetings with President Mengistu, for
example, I had been asked to profile him for the BBC World
Service. That profile, aired in 1988, had portrayed him in a far

more favourable light than most people believed he deserved.
What I had said had been a genuine expression of my own views having got to know the man quite well I had concluded that his
character had a great deal more depth and subtlety to it than he
had ever before been given credit for. The end result, however,
had been to make me vastly unpopular with his legions of critics
and to give the TPLF further reason to conclude that I was firmly
in the government’s camp.
Finally, in 1988 and the early part of 1989, my involvement
with the Addis Ababa regime had taken on a whole new
dimension. In a bizarre series of journeys spread out over a
period of more than a year I had carried messages back and forth

between Ethiopia and neighbouring Somalia, where another
African dictator with whom I was on friendly terms, President
Mohamed Siyad Barre, was then still in power. The purpose of
these trips had been to lend support to a faltering diplomatic
peace process between the two countries, and my main role had
been to reassure each head of state that his opposite number was
in fact serious about negotiating and subsequently respecting a proper treaty.

had thought that what I was doing was
honourable, worthwhile and manifestly in a good cause. Moreover it had flattered my ego to play the part of 'honest broker’
between opponents as powerful and as dangerous as Mengistu
and Barre. Such psychological inducements, however, had
completely blinded me to the downside of my activities - the
extent to which the close personal relationships that I was obliged
to build with these cruel and calculating men might corrupt and
compromise my own character. There is an old proverb which
recommends that anyone planning to sup with the devil should
use a long spoon. During my little burst of amateur diplomacy in
1988 and 1989 I supped with two devils - and unfortunately I
neglected to use a spoon at all.
Did I emerge from the experience tainted in any way? The
At the time

I

470

The Waste Land

honest answer to that question is a resounding Yes. Certainly I
did. I could also add that I regret my actions and that, if I had my
time over again, I surely would not allow myself to be lured by
flattery and personal ambition into such vile company.

The fact was, however, that I now had to live with the
consequences of my own mistakes. One of these consequences
was that the Ethio-Somali peace process in which I had played a
part had involved an agreement by both sides to cut off all the
finance and arms that they had hitherto provided to each other’s
rebel groups. This naturally affected the interests of the TPLF
who, over a period of several years, had built up a substantial
support-office in Mogadishu, the Somali capital. Once again,
therefore, I had demonstrated myself to be an enemy of the
Tigrayan cause and a friend to Mengistu Haile Mariam, the
dictator whom they regarded as the very incarnation of evil.

This was the background against which, with considerable

made my first overtures to the TPLF’s London
office in November 1990. I expected that the most likely result
was that they would flatly refuse my request to go to Axum.
trepidation,

I

and a guilty conscience had
conspired to produce a different and even more worrying
scenario in my own mind: the guerillas would agree to take me to
the sacred city; then, after I had crossed the border from Sudan
into Tigray, they would arrange a fatal ‘accident’. Melodramatic
and even absurd though this fear might seem, it was very real to
me.
Alternatively, however, paranoia

Quest or cover story?

The response of the TPLF to my initial approach was underwhelming. Yes, they knew who I was. Yes, they were surprised
that I should want to go to Axum. But no, they did not object to

my plans.
There was a problem, however. A visa would be required from
the government of the Sudan before I could even fly to
Khartoum. An internal travel permit from that same government
would also be necessary to enable me to cross the hundreds of
kilometres of desert between Khartoum and the Tigrayan
frontier.

Supping with Devils

471

Unfortunately neither visas nor permits were readily forth-

coming for British citizens in the closing months of 1990. By
then a major conflict in the Arabian Gulf looked unavoidable,
and Sudan had thrown in its lot with Iraq. Britain, by taking the
American side, had therefore rendered its nationals virtually
persona non grata in Khartoum.
Didn’t the TPLF have ways to get around that ban? Yes, they
told me, they did. However, they reserved their efforts for visitors

who were their friends or for visitors who could actively assist
their cause. Since I was not a friend, and since I did not appear to

be offering them anything that was to their immediate advantage,
I would have to make my own arrangements with the Sudanese
authorities. If I succeeded with that and if I could get myself as far
as the frontier town of Kassala, then the TPLF would take me
across the border from there and would allow me to proceed to

Axum.

My contacts with the Sudanese Embassy in London only
added to my growing sense of futility and depression. As a writer
I was obliged to lodge my visa request with the Information
Counsellor, Dr Abdel Wahab El-Affendi, who turned out to be a
dapper young fellow in a suit. He told me, very politely, that I
should abandon hope at once: in the present political climate
there was absolutely no chance that I would be permitted to enter
Sudan and even less that I would be allowed to travel internally
from Khartoum to Kassala.
‘Would it help if the TPLF supported my case?’ I asked.
‘Certainly. Will they?’

not at the moment. They have other priorities.’
‘Well, there you are,’ sighed Dr Affendi with the air of a man
‘Er

.

.

.

who has just proved his point, ‘you’re wasting your time.’
I

asked: ‘Would you

mind forwarding my application

to

Khartoum anyway?’

The Information Counsellor smiled broadly and turned both
hands palms upwards in an eloquent gesture of insincere
apology: ‘I will be happy to do that, but I assure you that no good

his

will come of it.’

Throughout the month of November I stayed in touch with Dr
Affendi by telephone. He had no news for me. And after my first
discussion with the TPLF on 2 November I went back to see

472

The Waste Land

them again on the 19th, this time for a meeting with Tewolde
Gebru, their head of mission. During that meeting I had the
sense that my motives were being skilfully probed by a clever
negotiator whose aim was to find out whether I could be taken at
face value or whether my real reason for wanting to go to Axum

might not have more to do with the military ambitions of the
Addis Ababa regime.
Of course, I knew that I was only interested in the Ark of the
Covenant. Not for the first time, however, it occurred to me that

my so-called ‘quest’ could easily look to the TPLF like the cover
story of a spy. I was therefore not sure whether I should be elated

or alarmed when, at the end of our conversation, Tewolde told

me that he would ask the Front’s Khartoum office to facilitate my
visa and travel permit applications.

A deal
During the next three weeks I heard nothing further from the
TPLF or from the Sudanese Embassy in London. A stalemate
seemed to have set in and I began to realize that I was going to
have to do something to force the pace.
The idea that I finally came up with was very simple. It was
clear that an intense propaganda campaign was being waged
alongside the war on the ground in Ethiopia. As part of this
campaign the government had accused the TPLF - probably
wrongly - of looting and burning churches. I therefore decided
that I might have a chance of securing the rebels’ co-operation if I

could offer them the prospect of a television news report about
religious freedom in Tigray under their administration - a report

which they would be given the opportunity to refute the
allegations that had been levelled against them.
I did not want to make a public statement in the media in
in

favour of the TPLF - partly because of a residual sense of loyalty

government like Shimelis Mazengia who had
helped me over the years, and partly because I found the prospect
of a complete volte face distasteful. It was true that my views on
Ethiopia’s political problems had already changed, and that they
were still changing. Nevertheless to stand up and support the
TPLF now just because I needed to get to Axum was precisely
to people in the

Supping with Devils
the sort of behaviour that, in recent months,

I

473

had come to

despise most in myself.

The solution that I had thought up to get around this problem
would not make or
present the television news report on Tigray. I would get
someone else to do it for me.
The person whom I had in mind was an old friend, a former
BBC producer named Edward Milner who had gone freelance
some years previously. He had recently come back from the
South American country of Colombia where he had filmed a
special report for Britain’s Channel 4 News. I therefore thought
there was a good chance that he might be interested in doing a
story on Tigray for the same outlet. Of course there could be no
was, however, almost equally devious.

I

question of steering him in any particular direction. I knew him to

be a man of integrity and I knew that he would insist on complete
editorial freedom to film and report exactly what he saw in the
field. Nevertheless I thought that the TPLF might show more
interest in my application to go to Axum if, by this device, I could
connect my own proposed trip to an important piece of television
coverage. All rebel groups, in my experience, are keen on
publicity and I did not think that the TPLF would prove to be any
exception.

Monday

December, I telephoned
Tewolde Gebru again. When I had met him on 19 November he
had told me that he would request the Front’s Khartoum office to
facilitate my visa and travel permit applications. I now asked him
if there had been any progress on this.
‘None at all,’ he replied. ‘Our people in Sudan are very busy
and your case isn’t really a priority for them.’
‘Would it make a difference if I was able to offer you some
Accordingly,

on

10

television coverage?’

‘Depends what it would be about.’
‘It would be about the whole issue of religious freedom in
Tigray - and about the relationship between the TPLF and the
church. You may be winning the war on the ground but it seems
.’
to me that you’re losing the propaganda war
‘What makes you say that?’
‘I’ll give you an example. You’ve been accused recently of
looting and burning churches, right?’
.

.

474

The Waste Land
*

‘Yes.’

‘Which presumably has done you some harm?’
‘Actually it has done us a great deal of harm both with the
people and internationally.’
‘And is it true?’
‘No. Not true at all.’
‘Nevertheless it’s been said - and once mud of that sort has

been thrown it tends to stick.’ I played my trump card: ‘It’s quite
obvious that it’s part of a well planned government propaganda
campaign against you. Listen, let me quote you something from a
report in The Times of 19 October.’ I had in front of me a clipping
that my research assistant had given me. ‘The Ethiopian
government’, I now read, ‘particularly wants church support in its
struggle against further disintegration of the state. President

Mengistu said recently: “Our nation is the product of the process
of history and it has existed for thousands of years. This is proved
by existing historical relics.” Ironically, the President also wants
to contrast his liberalizing regime with what is perceived as the
continuing communism and anti-clericalism of the secessionist

movements

.’
.

.

JI am familiar with that report,’ Tewolde interjected. ‘Any
liberalization that Mengistu is doing is just a cynical measure

designed to win popular support now that he sees that he cannot
defeat us on the battlefield.’

‘But that’s not really the issue. The point is that you need to do

something about your anti-clerical image. A proper news story
televised nationally here in Britain would help you a lot. If we
filmed that story at Timkat - which is when I want to be in Axum
- then the processions and the whole atmosphere would help to
demonstrate that the TPLF aren’t against the church and that
you are the responsible guardians of the most precious historical
relic of all.’

‘You could be right.’
‘So shall I go ahead and see if I can organize some television
coverage?’

‘That would be a good idea.’

‘And if I succeed do you think you’ll be able to arrange the
visas and permits in time?’
‘Yes. I think I can guarantee that.’

Supping with Devils

475

The eleventh hour
After finishing with Tewolde I got straight on the phone to my
friend Edward Milner, explained the situation to him and asked

whether he was interested in offering the Tigray story to Channel
4 News.
He was interested and, by Wednesday 12 December, had
secured a written commitment from the channel which we faxed
to the

TPLF together with Ed’s passport details. We also sent a

covering letter saying that we would have to leave for Tigray no
later than Wednesday 9 January 1991 - well ahead of Timkat.

Two more weeks went by and still we had heard nothing
definite from the TPLF. The visas and permits, although now

forcefully requested, had simply not come through. ‘Check with

me immediately after the New Year,’ Tewolde advised.
By Friday 4 January 1991 1 had given up hope entirely and was
beginning to experience an odd mixture of regret and relief: the
former because I had failed to complete my quest; the latter
because I had at least satisfied my own sense of honour by trying
my best - and because I now seemed to be safe from all the
dangers, real or imaginary, that the journey into Tigray had
threatened. Then, late in the afternoon, Tewolde called: ‘You
can go ahead,’ he announced, ‘everything is arranged.’

Ed and I flew to Khartoum on 9 January as scheduled. From
there an overland trek of less than a week would bring us to the

sacred city of Axum.

8

Chapter 1

A Treasure Hard to Attain

Ed Milner and I disembarked from the KLM Airbus that had
carried us to Khartoum and stepped out into the moist embrace

of an African night. We had no visas, only reference numbers
given to us by the TPLF in London. These, however, were
clearly known to the immigration officer who handled our arrival

and who retained our passports while we went to collect our
luggage.

Married to a lovely Thai wife, and with two beautiful children,
Ed was best man at my wedding and is one of my oldest friends.
Short and stockily built with dark hair and angular features, he is
also a consummate television professional - a veritable one-man

band who produces and directs, shoots film and records sound all
by himself. These special skills, quite apart from his contacts at
Channel 4, had made him an ideal choice for this trip, for while I
had needed to offer the TPLF a news story I had not wanted my
own work in Axum to be complicated by the presence of a large
film crew.

Ed’s full name is John Edward Douglas Milner. In the arrivals
hall at Khartoum Airport, therefore, we naturally pricked up our

ears when we heard these words over the tannoy: ‘John Edward,

John Edward, John Edward. Will Mr John Edward please report
to Immigration Office immediately.’

Ed complied and then disappeared. Half an hour later I had
collected all our luggage and had been handed my passport duly

stamped by immigration. A further half an hour passed, then an
hour, then an hour and a half. Finally, well after midnight, with
all the other passengers cleared through customs and the airport
virtually

deserted,

my

colleague

surfaced

again

looking

A Treasure Hard to Attain

477

perplexed but cheerful. Tor some reason/ he explained, ‘the

name John Edward appears on the police blacklist. Eve tried to
make it clear to them that Pm John Edward Milner but they don’t
seem to get the point. They’ve kept my passport. I have to come
back tomorrow morning to pick it up.’
The TPLF had sent a car to the airport to meet us. Its driver,
who spoke no English, whisked us through the deserted streets of
Khartoum, stopping every few minutes at road blocks manned
by loutish, heavily armed soldiers who illiterately examined the
laissez passer that he carried.
I had been in the Sudan before - indeed, between 1981 and
1986 I had visited the country regularly. I was immediately
aware, however, that much had changed since then. For a start it
was clear from the road blocks that there was now a strictly
enforced curfew, something that would have been unheard of in
the old days. Also, though I couldn’t quite put my finger on it, the
atmosphere felt different. There was an eerie quality about the
blackened buildings, the litter-strewn alleyways, and the roaming
packs of stray dogs. Always a mess, Khartoum tonight felt ugly
and out-of-joint in a way that was entirely new to me.
We had arrived in the centre of the city and presently we
turned right on to the Shariah-el-Nil, just to the north of the
imposing Victorian palace where, in the year 1885, General
Charles Gordon was killed by the Mahdi’s dervishes.
Shariah-el-Nil means ‘Nile Street’ or ‘Nile Way’ and we were,
indeed, now driving alongside that great river. Overhead a
canopy of Neem trees blotted out the stars while to our right,
glimpsed between the thick trunks and hanging branches, the
Nile itself could be seen flowing sedately towards distant Egypt.
On our left we passed the vacant terrace of the Grand Hotel,
once an elegant meeting place, now looking rather seedy and
run-down. Soon afterwards we came to a last check-point at a
roundabout, and here the driver was once again obliged to
produce his laissez passer. Then we were waved on to the spit of
land at the confluence of the Blue and White Niles where the

Khartoum Hilton stands. As we pulled into the hotel’s well lit
courtyard I was looking forward very much indeed to two or

perhaps three double vodkas, tonic and a bucket of ice. When I
later attempted to order these items from room service, however,

478

The Waste Land

was reminded of an important fact that I had forgotten: since the
adoption of Islamic law in the mid-1980s, alcohol had been
banned in the Sudan.
The next morning, Thursday 10 January, Ed and I took a taxi
to the offices of the Relief Society of Tigray, where the TPLF in
London had told us to report to make the final arrangements for
our trip. Our names, we noticed, were scrawled in chalk on a
blackboard in an upstairs room; however no one there seemed to
know anything else about us. Neither was it immediately possible
to make contact with Haile Kiros, TPLF head of mission in
Khartoum: always unreliable, the city’s telephone system
appeared to have broken down entirely that morning.
‘Can’t we just drive over to the TPLF office?’ I asked one of
I

the

REST officials.

‘No. Better you stay here. We will find Haile Kiros for you.’

By mid-morning there was no news. We decided that I
should stay put to wait for Haile Kiros and that Ed should go to
the airport in the taxi to collect his passport. He did this. Two

hours later, however, he had failed to return and there was still
no sign of the TPLF official, or indeed of anyone who appeared
to be even remotely interested in me or my plans to get to

Axum.

The silver lining to this particular cloud, I reflected, was that
such a laid-back attitude did not lend credibility to my paranoid
fancies that I might be murdered in Tigray. Indeed, a much more
realistic prospect was beginning to suggest itself to me, namely
that all concerned could turn out to be too comatose and slowmoving to get me to Tigray at all.
I looked at my watch and found that it was after one o’clock. In
less than an hour, I remembered, all offices in Khartoum would
close down for the day, probably including those of REST and
the TPLF. Tomorrow, Friday, was the Islamic sabbath. It was

therefore clear that nothing very much was going to happen

before Saturday 12 January.

And where was Ed? Perhaps he had gone directly back to the
Hilton. I tried to telephone the hotel but of course could not get

through. Feeling increasingly irritated I wrote a note for Haile

Kiros giving him my room number and asking him to contact me.
I

then handed this note to one of the friendly young people

A Treasure Hard to Attain

479

manning the REST office and walked out on to the street in
search of a taxi.
First I went back to the Hilton, but Ed was not there. Then,
just in case, I went to

REST again, but he was not there either.

Finally I ordered my driver to take me to the airport - where, with

much patient inquiry, I managed to establish that my colleague
had been detained and was being ‘interviewed’ by the police.
Could I go in and see him?
No.
Could I get any further information at all?
No.
When might he reappear?
‘Today, tomorrow, maybe Saturday,’ explained the Englishspeaking businessman who had kindly assisted me. ‘Nobody
knows. Nobody will say. It is the National Security Police who are
holding him. Very bad men. Very impossible for you to do
anything.’

By now genuinely concerned, I hurried over to the airport
information kiosk which - amazingly - was open. There, not
without some difficulty, I obtained the telephone number of the
British Embassy. Then I found a public telephone which actually

worked and, moreover, was free of charge. Unfortunately,
however, no one answered at the other end.
Two minutes later I was in my taxi again. The driver did not
know where the Embassy was - although he had claimed
otherwise - and eventually located it by a curious process of trial
and error which took slightly more than an hour.
I spent what was left of the afternoon back at the airport with
two British diplomats whom I had found drinking illegal
substances at the Embassy club. These officials, however, were
no more successful than I had been in establishing why - or even
where - Ed was being held. Their efforts, moreover, were
complicated by the fact that Yasser Arafat, leader of the Palestine
Liberation Organization, had just arrived in a Libyan jet to
discuss the Gulf crisis with Sudan’s military dictator, General

Omar el-Bashir. Bristling with automatic weapons, platoons of
roamed around giving vent to patriotic anti-Western
feelings and generally making life unpleasant for everyone.
Neither were my two diplomats in a particularly good mood. ‘All
soldiers

480

The Waste Land

British citizens have been warned to stay away from this bloody

one of them reminded me with a faint note of
accusation in his voice. ‘Now perhaps you can see why.
Around nine that evening, with Ed still not rescued, I was
dropped back at the Hilton for dinner. Then, just after ten, to my
great relief he appeared in the lobby looking a little grimy and
tired but otherwise none the worse for wear.
He held up his hands as he sat down at my table. They were
covered with black ink. ‘I’ve been finger-printed,’ he explained.
He then attempted - fruitlessly - to order a large gin and tonic.
Finally, with only minimal disgruntlement, he settled for a warm
country,’

5

non-alcoholic beer.

On the road
As it turned out, Ed had not been held by the dreaded National
Security Police but by the Sudanese branch of Interpol.
Apparently the name ‘John Edward’ was one of the half dozen or
so aliases used by an internationally wanted drugs dealer. Ed’s
fate had been sealed when the investigating officers had noticed
stamp for Colombia, the
cocaine capital of the world. The fact that he had been there to
film a news story for Channel 4 had not impressed the Sudanese
detectives at all, nor had his distinct non-resemblance to the
photograph of the wanted man that had been wired by Interpol.
Fortunately a set of fingerprints had been sent as well and, rather
late in the evening, someone had the bright idea of comparing
Ed’s fingerprints with these. His release had followed shortly
that his passport contained a visa

afterwards.

The next day we told the story to Haile Kiros, the TPLF
representative, who turned up at the Hilton in the middle of the
afternoon. Though it had been rather worrying at the time, it was
risible in retrospect and the three of us had a good laugh about it.

We then began to discuss the logistics of the trip to Axum and,
as we did so, I found myself watching Haile Kiros closely. I could

detect absolutely nothing in his demeanour, however, to suggest
that he might wish me any harm whatsoever.

On the contrary, he

was an affable, easy-going, sophisticated individual who was
clearly devoted to the cause of overthrowing the Ethiopian

A Treasure Hard to Attain

481

government but otherwise appeared to be entirely without
malice. As we talked it began to dawn on me just how badly I
might have got things out of perspective in the preceding months.
Confronted with the friendly reality of Haile Kiros, all the fears
and anxieties that I had suffered at the prospect of putting myself
into the hands of the rebels looked unwarranted and all the dark
imaginings that I had admitted into my life seemed absurd.
On the morning of Saturday 12 January we were joined by a
TPLF official whom I was only ever to know by the single name of
‘Hagos’. Lean and slighdy built, with a complexion scarred by
childhood smallpox, he explained that he had been assigned to
accompany us to Axum - where he had been born - and to return
with us from there when our work was complete. Meanwhile,
here in Khartoum, he would facilitate our travel warrants to the
border and would also help us to hire a vehicle for the journey.
By noon we had completed the paperwork and by the early
evening we had done a deal with an Eritrean businessman
resident in the Sudan who agreed to provide us with a sturdy

Toyota Landcruiser, an even sturdier driver named Tesfaye, and
six jerry-cans for spare fuel. At US$200 per day the rental
seemed to me a bargain: I knew, you see, that much of our
journey would have to be made by night on precarious mountain
tracks so as to avoid the unwelcome attentions of the Ethiopian

government aircraft that still patrolled the daytime skies above
the rebel province of Tigray.

The next morning, Sunday 13 January, we left Khartoum just
dawn. Ahead of us lay hundreds of kilometres of
Sudanese desert into which we now motored at high speed.
Tesfaye, our driver, was a piratical-looking character with
woolly hair, tobacco -yellow teeth, and a wandering eye; he
handled the Landcruiser with masterful confidence, however,
and clearly knew the route well. Beside him in the front of the
vehicle, keeping his own counsel, sat Hagos. Ed and I occupied
the rear bench and said little to each other as the sun of a whitebefore

hot day gradually rose to greet us.

We were aiming for the frontier town of Kassala where, that
evening, a convoy of lorries operated by the Relief Society of

Tigray would be marshalling to cross the border. Our plan was to
join that convoy and ride with it as far as we could in the direction

482

The Waste Land

of Axum. ‘It is safer to travel in a large group,’ Hagos explained,
‘in case anything goes wrong.’
The journey from Khartoum to Kassala helped me to realize
just how drear

and empty the landscapes of the Sudan really
were. All around us, in all directions, an arid plain stretched away
towards the horizon, making me aware, as I had never been
before, of the soft relentless curve of the planet’s surface.

Then, as the day soared towards noon, we began to pass the
desiccated corpses of sheep, goats, cattle and - finally and
alarmingly - of camels as well. These were the first casualties of a
great famine in which people, too, would soon perish - but which
the government of the Sudan had thus far refused even to
acknowledge, let alone to seek to remedy. This, I thought, was
surely an act of fatal arrogance on its part - the callous folly of yet
another African dictatorship obsessed with maintaining its own
prestige and power at the price of immense human suffering.

But I had supported just such dictatorships in the past, hadn’t
I? And even now I could hardly be said to have severed all my
links with them. So who was I to judge? Who was I to feel regret?
And by what right did I seek now to empathize with the
dispossessed?

Kassala
Shortly before two that afternoon

we crossed the silt-laden

stream of the Atbara river near its confluence with the Takazze
and I realized, almost with a sense of shock, how rapidly and how
remorselessly the great distance that had once separated me from
Axum was now being narrowed. Only a month before, that
distance had looked impossible to bridge - a chasm deep and
wide raging with nameless dreads. It therefore seemed almost a
miracle that I was here and that I had been allowed to set my eyes
upon the very rivers that I felt sure the Hebrew migrants had
followed when they had brought the Ark of the Covenant into
Ethiopia - the mighty rivers that scoured the land shadowing
with wings, that poured down into the thirsty deserts of the
Sudan, that merged with the Nile, and that flowed on past
Elephantine and Luxor, past Abydos and Cairo, to spend
themselves at last in the Mediterranean Sea.

A Treasure Hard to Attain

483

Soon after three p.m. we arrived in Kassala, which was built
around an oasis of date palms and dominated by a weird granite
outcropping which reared up more than 2,500 feet above the
surrounding plain. That red and withered hill, I realized, though
it appeared to be isolated, was in fact the first harbinger of the
great highlands of Ethiopia.

knowledge that the border was
now so close - just a few kilometres away - and looked around
with renewed interest at the turbulent frontier town through
which we were driving. Everywhere, oblivious to the enervating
heat, crowds of people milled about, filling the dusty streets with
bright colours and loud sounds. Here a group of quick and subtle
highlanders, down from Abyssinia to barter the trade of the
mountains for the trade of the desert, stood arguing with a stallkeeper; there a fuzzy-haired nomad sat astride his grumbling
camel and gazed at the world with arrogant eyes; here a Muslim
holy man, dressed in rags, bestowed benedictions upon those
who would pay him and curses upon those who would not; there a
child, squealing with glee, pursued a makeshift hoop with an
I felt a thrill of excitement at the

outstretched stick

.

.

.

Hagos directed Tesfaye to drive us to a small, flat-roofed
house on the outskirts of town. ‘You have to stay here,’ he
explained, ‘until

it

is

time for us to cross the border.

The

Sudanese authorities are a little unpredictable at the moment. So
it’s better that you keep your heads down and remain indoors.
That way there will be no chance of any problem.’
‘Who lives here?’ I asked as we climbed down from the
Landcruiser.
‘This is a TPLF house,’ Hagos explained, showing us into a
clean courtyard around which a number of rooms were arranged.
‘Rest, get a little sleep if you can. It’s going to be a long night.’

Across the border
At five that evening we were driven to a huge, open, dusty
expanse of ground littered with the bones of slaughtered
quadrupeds. Swarms of blowflies buzzed around and here and
there, amongst the mouldering vertebrae and the fusty shoulderblades, lay little piles of stinking human faeces.

To my right,

484

The Waste Land

thoughtfully arranging itself between Kassala’s great granite
butte and the town itself, the sun descended the sky in a surreal

extravaganza of tangerine and magenta. The whole collage, I
thought, looked like some existentialist vision of the end of all
flesh.

‘Where exactly are we?’ I asked Hagos.
this is where the convoy assembles before crossing the
‘Oh
border,’ explained the TPLF official. ‘We will wait maybe half an
hour, maybe an hour. Then we will go.’
Ed immediately climbed down out of the Landcruiser and
went off with his tripod and video camera to find a vantage point
from which to film the lorries arriving. His story for Channel 4
would focus not only on religious issues, as I had told the TPLF,
but also on the burgeoning famine in Tigray.
While he was making his preparations I wandered pensively
about, warding off flies and looking for somewhere to sit down
and complete my notes for the day. The charnel house
atmosphere, however, had thoroughly disconcerted me. Besides,
with the sun now resting on the horizon, the gloaming was
already too deep to write in.
A coolness also had filled the air, an unexpected chill after the
heat of the afternoon, and a keen wind sang amongst the derelict
buildings that ringed the marshalling ground. People walked to
and fro - shadowy figures of men and women who seemed to
have come here from nowhere with nowhere to go. Meanwhile
small groups of ragged children had gathered to play amidst the
rubbish and the bones, their high-pitched giggles mingled with
.

.

.

the lowing of a passing herd of cattle.

And then I heard the rumble of approaching vehicles accompanied by a crashing of gears. Looking back in the direction from
which these sounds were coming I saw a glimmer of headlights,
then a dazzling beam. Finally, out of the murk, the mammoth
shapes of perhaps twenty Mercedes lorries materialized. As they
rolled past me I could see that each one was loaded up with
hundreds of sacks of grain, loaded so heavily that the suspension
sagged and the chassis groaned.

The trucks pulled to a halt in parallel files in the centre of the
open ground and there, in twos and threes, their number was
augmented by others snaking out from town. Soon the evening

A Treasure Hard to Attain
air was filled

485

with billowing clouds of dust and the sounds of

revving engines. And then, as though on a signal - though none

was given - the whole convoy started to move.
I ran back to the Landcruiser where Ed, helped by Hagos, was
hurriedly stowing his camera equipment. Then we all jumped
into the vehicle and set off in pursuit of the lorries’ tail-lights.
The trail that we were following, I could see, was deeply rutted
and grooved and I wondered how many convoys over how many
years had passed this way bearing food for people made hungry
by the folly and wickedness of their own government.
In our faster car we soon overtook the last of the trucks, and
we passed perhaps a dozen more before Tesfaye - who was
clearly enjoying the role of safari-rally driver - slotted us into
position in the middle of the convoy. All around us now the dust
and sand that the vehicles were throwing up created a wild and
turbulent agitation, sometimes reducing the visibility to just a
few feet. Straining my eyes to peer out of the windows at the
night as it rushed by, I experienced a sensation of tremendous
momentum coupled with a feeling of inevitability. I was on my
way, going wherever I would go, to get whatever Fate would
send. And I thought: this is where I want to be; this is what I want
to

do

•

Shortly before seven we arrived at the border and halted at a

Sudanese army check-point - just a collection of mud huts in
the middle of a bleak and furrowed plain. Carrying hurricane
lanterns, a few uniformed men emerged out of the darkness and
began to check documents and identities. Then, one by one, the
lorries ahead of us were waved through.
When our turn came Hagos was ordered out of the car by an
officer who questioned him closely, making frequent gestures
towards the back seat - where Ed and I were doing our best not
to look conspicuous. At one point our passports were produced
and minutely examined under the headlights. Then suddenly
the officer seemed to lose interest in us and walked off to harass
the occupants of the next lorry in the queue.

Hagos climbed back into the Landcruiser and slammed the
door.

‘Any problems?’ I asked nervously.
‘No. None at all,’ replied the TPLF official. He turned and

486

The Waste Land

gave me a broad smile: ‘Don’t worry. They are not going to arrest

Ed again. Everything is in order. We can go.’

He said something in Tigrigna to Tesfaye who happily
released the handbrake and gunned the engine. Then we rolled

forward across the border and on into Ethiopia - though not yet
into Tigray. Our route, I knew, would take us first through
territory controlled by the Eritrean People’s Liberation Front, a
guerilla movement older than the

TPLF which had been fighting

for the independence of Eritrea for almost thirty years and which

now, in early 1991, was nearer than ever before to achieving its
objective. As we drove I asked Hagos about the links between the
two rebel groups.
‘We co-operate closely,’ he explained. ‘But the EPLF is
campaigning to create a separate Eritrean state whereas we in the
TPLF do not seek to secede but only to make it possible for a
democratic government to be elected in Ethiopia.’
‘And to do that you have to overthrow Mengistu?’
‘Certainly. He and his Workers’ Party are the main obstacles to
freedom in our country.’
We drove on for about half an hour, during which we saw no
sign of the rest of the convoy. Then suddenly lights appeared in
front of us and we pulled to a halt amongst parked lorries in what
seemed to be a broad valley surrounded by low hills.
‘Why are we stopping?’ I asked Hagos.
‘We will wait for the other vehicles behind us to catch up. Also

we will collect some TPLF fighters who will travel with us as
guards for the convoy.’

Without further explanation Hagos then got out of the
Landcruiser and disappeared. Ed grabbed his camera and a
hand-held light and walked off too.
A moment later I decided that I might as well stretch my legs
and have a look around. Stepping down into the velvety coolness
of the night, I stood for a while quite close to the vehicle gazing up
at the sky. I was aware of the faint effulgence shed by the clusters
of stars and the crescent moon above me, and I could just make
out the silhouettes of the nearby trucks, their headlights now
extinguished. Off to my right, almost lost in deep shadow, was a

grove of acacia thorn trees. Further away a white rock at the top of
a hill reflected a delicate incandescence.

A Treasure Hard to Attain

487

Gradually my eyes adjusted and I was able to see more and
more of what was going on around me. Groups of fierce and
brigandish-looking men stood here and there or crouched down

on the ground talking in low voices. And whereas there had been
no guns in evidence while we were still inside the Sudan,
everyone now appeared to be armed with automatic weapons.
Feeling slightly apprehensive, I walked amongst the parked
lorries and, after a few moments, came across Hagos, who was
conversing with several TPLF fighters dressed in battle fatigues.

As I approached I was startled to hear the harsh metallic clunk of
an AK47 assault rifle being cocked and I thought: Fm going to get
shot and it's going to be now.
But instead Hagos welcomed me and introduced me to the
other men. I had even been wrong about the noise I had heard which turned out to have been produced by a weapon being
expertly stripped and cleaned. Not for the first time I experienced
a sense of shame at the self-inflicted terrors that I had endured in
the months before setting out on this trip. And I resolved that
henceforward I would trust the rebels - who, after all, had also
been obliged to trust me.
It was quite some time before we were back on the road: one of
the lorries that had passed through the border post behind us had
punctured a tyre and it seemed to be a matter of policy to keep the
convoy together. Eventually, however, we set off and drove for
perhaps another two hours.
Then - and I don’t think it was later than eleven p.m. - we
stopped again. We seemed, though I could not be sure, to be in
the middle of a vast plain. Here all the vehicles arranged
themselves side by side into a straight rank and doused their
headlights.

‘We won’t be going any further tonight,’ Hagos announced
after a moment’s silence.

‘Why not?’ I asked.
‘There is shelter nearby and we will have to spend tomorrow
there. The next safe place is too far ahead for us to reach before
sunrise.’

And with that,

cradling an

AK47

acquired, the TPLF official fell asleep.

that

he had somehow

488

The Waste Land
%

Breakfast at Tessenei
I

slept, too - though rather badly - with

my feet and shins stuck

out of the open side-window of the Landcruiser. Then, after a

few hours of troubled dreams and restless discomfort, I was
awakened by the asthmatic sounds of engines turning over and
the smell of diesel smoke.
We did not drive far. Less than a kilometre away there was a
copse of tall, thickly leaved trees under which the entire convoy
proceeded to conceal itself. I watched with amazement as canvas
tarpaulins were produced and draped over all the vehicles,
including our own. ‘To cut out reflections,’ Hagos explained.
‘From the air we will be almost invisible unless any shining metal
attracts the MiGs.’ He then added that even the most careful
attempts at camouflage could not guarantee our safety: ‘Sometimes the pilots just bomb and strafe woodland like this on the
off-chance that relief trucks will be taking cover there.’
The sun had risen while the convoy was being hidden and, in
the pale light of the early morning, like a salutary lesson, I could
see the blackened and burnt-out hulks of three Mercedes lorries.
‘They hit those a few weeks ago,’ said Hagos. ‘It was just bad
luck.’ He then broke a leaf-covered branch from one of the trees
and walked out onto the sandy plain behind us. There he joined
Tesfaye and several of the other drivers who were methodically
engaged in brushing over the criss-crossed network of tyre tracks
leading to the copse.

At around eight in the morning all was done and Hagos
proposed that we walk into the nearby Eritrean town of Tessenei.

‘How far is that?’ I asked.
‘Not far. Half an hour or so. We should be quite safe. The
MiGs are mainly interested in high-value targets like trucks.

They don’t usually shoot up small groups of people out in the
open.’

‘And what about the towns?’
‘Sometimes they attack the towns if they see any vehicles or
any large public gathering. Tessenei has been bombed many
times.’

The walk was a pleasant one, along an earth path through little
clumps of scrub vegetation amidst which brightly coloured birds

A Treasure Hard to Attain

489

darted prettily to and fro. Looking around I could see that we

were in rising country and, in the far distance, I thought that I
could just make out the hazy silhouettes of lofty mountains.

Tessenei itself was surrounded by eroded granite hills in a
boulder-strewn valley. Not a single car moved on the largely
unpaved streets but there were people everywhere: children
playing, an old woman leading a heavily laden donkey, three
attractive teenage girls who covered their faces and fled giggling
as we approached, and large numbers of armed men - all of
whom greeted us with warm smiles and cheerful waves.
The town, frankly, was a mess. Most of the poor, flat-roofed
buildings showed signs of house-to-house fighting - gaping
holes blown through walls, fagades cratered by machine-gun
bullets, collapsed masonry. Above us, to our right, was the
hospital, completely gutted. Underfoot, everywhere we walked,
were countless spent shell cases that formed a glittering,
clinking carpet.

asked Hagos: ‘What happened here?’
‘A few years ago, when the government seemed to be winning
the war, Tessenei was one of the last strongholds of the EPLF.
I

In fact the Ethiopian army seized the town several times, but the

EPLF always got it back again. There was a great deal of heavy
fighting - very brutal, very bloody. But now the front line is far

away and it is peaceful here - except for the bombing.’
A few minutes later Hagos led us into a small hotel which
consisted of perhaps twenty rooms arranged in a square around
an earthen courtyard. Here, under a canopy of camouflage
netting, several groups of Eritreans were sitting at tables
drinking cups of coffee and conversing light-heartedly. A
waitress bustled to and fro and a promising aroma of cooking
filled

the air.

There was,

I

decided,

a

rather

decontracte

,

boulevard

atmosphere about this little scene which contrasted remarkably
with the devastation outside. People, clearly, could adapt to

almost any circumstances - no matter how grim - and find a

way to make life bearable.
As though reading my thoughts, Hagos said to me as we sat
down: ‘They don’t have much, but at least they are free now.

And conditions are getting better every day.’

490

The Waste Land

Evidence that this was indeed so soon arrived in the form of a
breakfast of fried eggs and a six-pack of Dutch beer.

‘Where on earth did they get this from?’ I spluttered as I
opened my first can.
‘Since the EPLF took back the port of Massawa from the
government last year there has been beer in Eritrea/ explained
Hagos with a smile. He opened a can for himself and took a
long swig, then added: ‘It is a great luxury after Khartoum, is it
not?’

In this fashion, drinking beer and chatting with half the

population of Tessenei - who had by now trooped into the hotel
to see the foreigners - we whiled away most of the morning. At

noon we tuned in to Ed’s short-wave radio and listened to the
increasingly gloomy news from the Arabian Gulf. It was now
Monday 14 January and the UN deadline for the withdrawal of
Iraqi troops from occupied Kuwait was due to expire at
midnight on the 15th.
We then slept for a few hours, awoke at four p.m., and walked
out to rejoin the convoy in time for its scheduled departure at
six.

The magic and the marvels
That night’s journey seemed to go on for ever, although in reality
it only lasted for eleven hours. Full darkness had fallen by the
time we left Tessenei. Tesfaye manoeuvred us into his favourite
spot in the middle of the convoy and then, amidst the now
familiar clouds of dust, we began an epic drive through the
western foothills of Ethiopia’s great central escarpment and then
up into the mountains beyond.
Around one in the morning we stopped to refill the Landcruiser’s tank from the reeking jerry-cans that we had brought
with us. Stiff and cramped, bruised from the pounding I had
taken on the bumpy and rutted tracks, I stepped down from the
vehicle while this operation was under way and watched the
lorries that had been behind us roll by one by one, their
headlights blazing, air brakes hissing.

When the last of them had gone past and disappeared I took a
deep breath, and gazed up at the constellations overhead and felt

A Treasure Hard to Attain

491

grateful to whatever good fortune it was that had allowed me to be

here. Then we were back on the road, back amongst the potholes

and the gullies, lurching forward to catch up with the convoy.
Soon I became aware, as I had not been before, that we were
ascending increasingly precipitous gradients, winding around
hairpin bends that seemed to hang suspended over empty space,
powering forward across bleak stretches of plateau, and then
climbing again. And I had the sense of great distances being
covered and of profound changes in the terrain.
I knew that at some point in the past few hours we had crossed
over the border from Eritrea into Tigray. And gradually, though
my body ached from the unremitting pummelling that it was
taking, I found myself slipping into a dream-like state in which
everything that had happened to me during the past two years,
the strange twists and turns of my quest, the dead-ends, and the
moments of discovery, seemed to merge into a single continuous
and coherent form. And I understood, all at once and with
boundless clarity, that the search which had obsessed me for so
long would amount to just a poor and meaningless adventure if it
had been motivated only by avarice and ambition. Lying in the
remote darkness of its sanctuary, the Ark of God might glitter
with ancient gold, but its real value did not lie in that. Neither did
it

matter that it was an archaeological treasure beyond price.

Indeed nothing about it that could be measured, or calculated, or
evaluated, or costed out had the slightest significance, and if I
had ever set my eyes on these things (and I knew in my heart that I
had) then the error that I had committed verged on desecration

- not of the object sought, but of the seeker, not of the the Holy
Ark, but of myself.

And where, if not in the material world, did the true value of
the relic

lie?

Why ... in its mystery, of course, and in its

enchantment, and in the hold that it had exercised upon human
imaginations in many different lands across all the long and
weary centuries. These were the enduring things - the magic and
the marvels, the inspiration and the hope. Better to hold fast to
them than to ephemeral prizes; better to aspire with a certain
nobility and to win nothing than to succeed and later be ashamed.

492

The Waste Land

*

Lonely road
s

>

Just before dawn, exhausted, grey from head to toe with the
fine, powdery grime of the road, we pulled into a small town

where not a single light flickered, not a single person stirred.
Here Hagos beat unmercifully on a locked door until it was
opened. Then we unloaded Ed’s camera equipment and other
luggage that we might need during the day and went inside
while Tesfaye drove off to hide the Landcruiser somewhere.
We found ourselves in a half-covered, half-open courtyard
where people lay sleeping on rudimentary beds. Some of these
beds, fortunately, were empty and Ed, Hagos and I quickly
acquired three of them. I then wrapped myself in a sheet, closed
my eyes and fell instantly asleep.
A few hours later, when I awoke in full daylight, my two
companions had disappeared and a dozen Tigrayans were
sitting around staring at me with keen interest. I said good
morning to them, got up with as much dignity as I could muster,
washed my face in a dribble of water from a tap attached to a
metal barrel, and then sat down to write my notes.
Soon Ed and Hagos came back - they had been filming the
distribution of some of the food brought by the convoy. I asked
where we were.
‘This is Cherero,’ Hagos replied. ‘It’s an important town in
this part of Tigray. Also it is the destination of the convoy. All

the trucks have unloaded here.’

‘How far is it to Axum?’
‘One more night of driving. But it is somewhat unsafe for us
to proceed alone.

It

may be advisable for us to wait here until

another convoy assembles.’
I

looked at the date indicator on my watch. It was Tuesday 15

January - just three days away from the start of Timkat.
‘Do you think we’ll have to wait long?’ I asked.
‘Two, three days maybe. Or maybe we will be lucky and have
the chance to leave tonight.’
‘Why do you say that it’s unsafe for us to proceed on our
own?’
‘Because the government sends saboteurs into Tigray from
their garrison at Asmara. They send out small teams to ambush

A Treasure Hard to Attain

493

vehicles moving on the roads. A Landcruiser like ours with just a

few people in it would make a good target for such an attack.’
‘What about the convoys? Aren’t they subject to attack too?’
‘No. Almost never. Too many lorries. Too many guards.’
The day passed long and slow, hot, boring and sticky. Then, as
evening came down, Hagos, who had been out and about for
several hours, announced that no convoy would be leaving that
night. ‘I advise’, he said, ‘that we stay - at least until tomorrow.’
Seeing the look of horror that this remark had induced on our
faces he then added: ‘But of course, it is up to you.’
Ed and I had already made up our minds on this point, which
we had discussed between ourselves at some length during the
afternoon.

We therefore told the TPLF official that we would

like to press on - unless he thought it completely foolhardy for us

to do so.

OK. I understand that you want to get to Axum
before Timkat. The danger is not very great. But I will see if we
‘No.

It is

can bring one other TPLF fighter with us in case there is any
trouble.’

At dusk we set off again. On the front bench beside Hagos was
the guard he had promised - a teenage boy with startlingly white
teeth, an extravagant Afro, an AK47, and three or four magazines
of spare ammunition. He was a cheerful sort of fellow who
laughed a great deal and insisted on playing Tigrayan war songs
at maximum volume on the Landcruiser’s stereo as we drove
through the night. But I couldn’t help feeling that all his energy
and bravado would not be sufficient to keep the bullets at bay if
anyone decided to shoot us up - from the cover, say, of that bush
over there, or of that clump of trees, or from behind that boulder
even.

was amazed at how different it felt to be travelling alone like
this, unescorted, with no great rumbling lorries in front of us and
none behind. Before we had seemed part of some prodigious and
invincible army relentlessly beating down the barriers of darkness, driving away the shadows with a barrage of light. Now we
were small, vulnerable, forsaken. And as we wound our way
amongst the withered trees of the mountain slopes I was
conscious of the immensity of these wild lands and of their bleak
and implacable hostility.
I

494

The Waste Land

We climbed for several hours, the engine labouring under the
stress,

the outside air temperature dropping steadily.

Then

suddenly we emerged at the top of a narrow pass to find armed
men blocking our path.
I muttered some expletive but Hagos reassured me: ‘Nothing
to worry about. There is a TPLF camp here, guarding the road.
These are our people.' Opening his door, he exchanged words
and handshakes with the rebels who had now surrounded the
Landcruiser. Then we were waved through an improvised
barrier and emerged moments later on to a windswept plateau
where campfires flickered amongst wooden huts.
We paused for half an hour to drink tea and then we were on
the move again, edging forward through the lonely night. Behind
us, one by one, the lights of the camp disappeared and were
replaced by shadows.
Time passed. I dozed, then awoke again to find that we were
skirting the lip of an immense valley: to our left the mountainside,
stony and close, to our right a plunging abyss defined by the
road's ragged edge. And then, out of the inky blackness that filled
the chasm’s floor, a brilliant firefly soared up towards us, a speck
of pure energy pulling behind it a ghostly, luminescent trail. In a
fraction of a second this glowing apparition had reached us. It
streaked directly across our path, narrowly missing the front
windscreen of the car, and then extinguished itself against the

embankment.
As this happened Tesfaye jammed on the brakes and switched
off all the Landcruiser’s lights. Meanwhile Hagos and the guard
whom we had brought with us from Cherero leaped out and
rushed to the rim of the precipice clutching their AK47S.
The two men, I thought, looked lithe and dangerous,
businesslike and unafraid. They seemed to move in harmony
together, as though they were completing some manoeuvre for
which they had been well trained.
‘What on earth's going on?’ asked Ed, who had been awakened
from a deep sleep by the dramatic, skidding stop of the vehicle.
‘I'm not sure,’ I replied, ‘but I rather think we’ve just been shot
at.'

was about to suggest that it might be in our interests to get out
of the car when Hagos and his companion came running back
I

A Treasure Hard to Attain

495

towards us. They clambered up on to the front bench, slammed
the door behind them and ordered Tesfaye to proceed.
‘I

assume that was a tracer bullet we saw/ I remarked a few

moments later.
‘Yes/ replied Hagos matter-of-factly. ‘Someone down in the
valley fired off a few rounds at us.’

‘But there was only one.’
‘No, no. We only saw one. Several shots would have been fired

- a short burst. The normal practice is to load a round or two of
tracer at the top of each magazine to enable the gunner to correct
his aim. The rest of the bullets are of the ordinary type.’

‘Charming,’ remarked Ed.

We drove on in' silence for a while, then

I

asked Hagos: ‘Who

do you think shot at us?’
‘It would have been government agents. As I told you, they are
constantly sending such people into Tigray to cause trouble. At
night they cannot bomb us from the air so they make use of these
sabotage squads in order to disrupt the traffic moving on the
.’
roads. Sometimes they succeed
Another question had occurred to me: ‘Why didn’t they carry
on firing? We were sitting ducks up there.’
‘Too dangerous for them. Since they missed us with the first
burst and since they were not very close to us, they would have
been unwise to continue with the attack. There are a lot of TPLF
fighters in this area. A prolonged exchange of fire would have
.

.

attracted attention.’

‘Oh ... I see.’
I

rested

my head wearily against the side window of the

Landcruiser and thought how easily life could be stolen by a
mindless bullet and how fragile we all were beneath our bluster

and conceit.
At around three that morning, picking up speed on a metalled
road, we drove by a field in which a tank lay derelict, its turret
blown askew, its gun-barrel drooping impotently. Then, to our
left, I saw the hulking ruins of an ancient building bathed in
starlight. I was overtaken by an acute, almost poignant, sense of
deja vu and I asked: ‘Where are we?’
‘We are coming into Axum,’ answered Hagos. ‘We have just
passed the Queen of Sheba’s palace.’

496

The Waste Land

A few minutes later we entered the small town, turned right
and left through the narrow streets, and then pulled to a halt in
front of a walled enclosure draped with creeping vines and
tropical flowers. While the others knocked on the gate to gain
admission, I slipped unnoticed around the side of the Landcruiser, dropped to my knees and kissed the ground. It was, I
knew, an extravagant and sentimental gesture. But somehow it
felt right.

Strategy

morning I was awakened by bright sunlight streaming
through the uncurtained window of the room that had been
assigned to me. In the small hours, when we had arrived,
everything had been in darkness, for there was no electricity in
Axum. But now, as I stepped outside, I could see that we were
lodging in a pleasant little guest house built around a patch of
In the

green lawn.

ambled over to a terrace where some chairs were arranged.
There, in a corner, a kettle was boiling promisingly on a stove
fashioned out of a large oil can. Nearby was a kitchen in which
two women, whom I judged to be mother and daughter, were
chopping vegetables.
I was greeted with smiles and was almost immediately
provided with a cup of sweet, scented tea. Then I sat down and
collected my thoughts while I waited for the others to wake up.
The date was now Wednesday 16 January 1991. During the
night that had just passed, the UN deadline for the withdrawal of
Iraqi troops from Kuwait had expired - and I wondered, in a
rather abstract way, whether World War III had broken out.
Meanwhile, in just two days’ time, the Timkat ceremonies were
due to begin here in Axum and I needed to have a strategy
worked out before then.
I found myself curiously reluctant to march straight round to
the Saint Mary of Zion church and to the sanctuary chapel.
Strangely, having come all this way, those few final steps seemed
the hardest of all to take. This was partly natural diffidence,
partly superstitious dread, and partly because I felt that an early
visit to the church of Saint Mary of Zion would alert the priests to
I

A Treasure Hard to Attain

497

my presence and would probably ensure that the true Ark would
not on this occasion be carried out in the Timkat processions. It

therefore seemed logical that I should hold back and keep a low
profile until the beginning of the ceremony. Then, in the scrum

of wild dancing that I knew would occur, I might find some
opportunity to get close to the relic and to take a proper look at it.

There was, however, an argument against this strategy. Ever
since my discussion in Jerusalem with the Falasha elder Raphael

Hadane I had become aware that the real Ark might never be used
in the Timkat processions - that a replica might be substituted
for it while the genuine article remained safely inside the chapel.
If this was so then clearly the sooner I introduced myself to the

Axum priests the better. I would have nothing to gain by waiting
and nothing to lose by being open and above board. Quite the
contrary, in fact, because only by talking to the clergymen at great
length would I have any chance of persuading them that I did not
represent a threat, that I was sincere, and that I was a worthy
candidate for admission into the presence of the Ark.

For these reasons, faced with irrevocable decisions that had to
be made right away, I was in something of a quandary as I sat
drinking my tea on that morning of 16 January.
In a little while a bleary-eyed Ed appeared from his room,
clutching a short-wave radio to his ear.

‘Has the war started?’ I shouted.
‘Well no, actually. It hasn’t. The deadline’s passed but there
are no reports of any fighting at all. Now what about some tea? Or
coffee? Coffee will do. And some breakfast. Is there any of that

around?’

While Ed was being catered for, Hagos also arrived - though
not from his room. He had obviously been into town already
because, in tow behind him, was a venerable bearded old fellow
in flowing vestments.

‘This is my father,’ explained the TPLF official, making polite
introductions all round. ‘He is a priest at Saint Mary of Zion

church. I told him about your interest in the Ark of the Covenant

and he said that he would like to meet you.’

498

The Waste Land

An honour and a burden
%

Hagos about my quest on several
occasions during our long journey from Khartoum. I had learnt
before we set out that he was a native of Axum but it had not
I

had, of course, talked to

occurred to me for a moment that he might have any connections
with the church, let alone that his father would actually turn out
to be a priest. Perhaps if I had known that I would have been more

guarded in my remarks - but then again perhaps not. I had liked
Hagos from the beginning and had not wanted to keep anything
from him.
The end result was that any element of surprise that I might
have retained had been removed, not out of design or malice on
anyone’s part but as the result of a pure fluke. I decided,
therefore, that there was no longer any point in attempting to be
guarded or cloak-and-dagger about what I was here to do. Better
by far to put all my cards on the table and accept the
consequences, whether positive or negative.
I had a long discussion with Hagos’s father, who seemed
intrigued by the notion that a foreigner should have come all this
way. in the hope of seeing the Ark of the Covenant.
‘And will I see it?’ I asked. ‘During the Timkat ceremonies?
Do they use the real Ark or do they use a replica?’
Hagos translated my question. There was then a pregnant pause
which the old man eventually broke with this reply: ‘On such
matters I am not qualified to speak. You must talk to my superiors.’
‘But you know the answer, don’t you?’
‘I

am not qualified to speak. It is not my responsibility.’

‘Whose responsibility is it?’
‘First and foremost you must meet the Nebura-ed the most
senior of all the priests in Axum. Without his blessing you will be
able to do nothing. If he grants his permission then you must also
talk with the guardian of the Ark
‘I was here before,’ I interrupted, ‘in 1983, and I met the
guardian then. Is he still alive do you know? Or has someone else
taken over from him?’
‘Unfortunately that one died, four years ago. He was very old.
He named his successor to replace him and this new man is now
,

.’

.

at his post.’

.

A Treasure Hard to Attain

499

‘And he always stays at the chapel where the Ark is kept?’
‘It is his burden that he may never leave the Ark. Do you know
that his predecessor, the guardian whom you met, attempted to
run away when he was told that he had been appointed?’
‘No,’ I replied, ‘I didn’t know that.’
‘Yes. He fled outside Axum, into the mountains. Other monks

were sent after him to catch him. When they brought him back he
still wanted to escape. He had to be chained at the chapel for
many months before he fully accepted his responsibility.’
‘Chained, you say?’
‘Yes. Chained inside the chapel.’
‘I’m surprised.’

‘Why?’
‘Because it sounds like he really didn’t want the job. I would
have thought it was a great honour to be appointed as guardian of
the Ark.’

‘An honour? Yes, certainly. But it is also a heavy burden. After
he takes up his post the chosen monk has no life outside the Ark.
He exists to serve it, to burn incense round about it, to be before
it

constantly.’

‘And what would happen if it were ever taken out of the chapel

- during Timkat, for example? Would the guardian go with it?’
‘He must stay close to it at all times. But you should speak to
others about these matters. I am not qualified

.’
.

.

put several other close questions about the Ark, but all of
them produced the same response from the old man - such
matters were not his business, he couldn’t say, I would have to
talk to someone more senior. Interestingly, however, he did tell
I

me that government officials had come to Axum shortly before
the town was captured by the

TPLF and had attempted to

remove the relic.
I asked: ‘How? I mean, what did they do? Did they try to go into
the chapel?’

‘Not at first. They wanted to persuade us that the Ark should
go with them to Addis Ababa. They said that there was fighting
coming and that it would be safer there.’
‘And what happened?’
‘When they became forceful and aggressive we resisted them.
They called soldiers, but we resisted them. The whole town

500

The Waste Land

heard what they were trying to do and there were demonstrations
in the streets. Eventually they returned to Addis Ababa emptyhanded. Soon afterwards, thanks be to God, Axum was
liberated.’
I

was aware that the father of a guerilla fighter was likely to be

biased in favour of the TPLF. Nevertheless I asked: ‘Since the

government forces left, have things improved here for the clergy,
or have they got worse?’
‘Definitely things are better. In fact the situation in the

churches is very good. We go to the church to pray when we like
-as much as we like, day, night, evening, whenever we wish.
Before, under the government, due to the curfew that they had
imposed, we were not allowed to go to the church at night, or to
go home from the church at night. If we went out from the
church, even for fresh air, they came and took us to prison. But
we don’t have to fear now. We can sleep safe in our homes and go
to church every day like normal people, and feel safe. We don’t
have to spend the night in the church for fear that we might be
caught walking home at night. During the government’s time we
never felt relaxed when we attended services. There was always
fear, not knowing what might happen to us or the church. Now
we practise our faith in peace.’

Croix pattee
Hagos’s father eventually left, promising that he would arrange a
meeting for me with the Nebura-ed the chief priest of the Saint
Mary of Zion church. He did not advise that I should attempt to
contact the guardian of the Ark before this meeting had taken
place: ‘That might cause some bad feeling. Things should be
done in the proper order.’
Although this strategy seemed to me to be full of potential
,

pitfalls, I realized that I had little choice but to go along with it. I

therefore decided, while waiting for an appointment with the

Nebura-ed that I would explore some of the archaeological sites
which I had visited all too briefly in 1983 - and others that I had
not been able to see at all.
,

remembered that there was supposed to be an ancient
carving of a lioness on a rock face near the quarries where
I

A Treasure Hard to Attain

501

Axum’s famous stelae had been cut in pre-Christian times. That
carving had been out of bounds in 1983 because it had been
located beyond the area controlled by the military garrison. Now,
however, it was accessible.
While Ed went off with another TPLF official to film various
sequences for his Channel 4 news story, I persuaded Hagos to
take me to the quarries in the Landcruiser. This was a risky thing
to do because of the danger of an air strike. However, we would
be driving less than five kilometres and would be able to conceal
the vehicle when we arrived.

We set off out of town past the so-called Queen of Sheba’s
palace and soon came to a rock-strewn hillside. We parked in a
gully, covered the Landcruiser with its camouflage tarpaulin, and

then began to hike up the scree.

‘What do you think of my chances of persuading the priests to

me into the chapel to see the Ark?’ I asked as we walked.

let

‘Oh

.

.

.

they will not allow you to do that,’ replied

Hagos

confidently. ‘Your only opportunity will be during Timkat .’

‘But do you think they really do bring the Ark out at Timkafi

Or do you think they use a replica?’

A shrug: ‘I don’t know. During my childhood I believed, and
my friends believed, that it was the true Ark rather than a

all

replica which was carried at Timkat.

We never questioned that

fact. It was not even an issue for us. But

now I am not so sure

.’
.

.

‘Why?’
‘It does

not seem logical.’

Hagos would be drawn no further on this subject and for the
next fifteen minutes or so we climbed strenuously in complete
silence. Then he pointed out a giant boulder across a ridge: ‘Your

lioness is there,’ he said.

had noticed that he had developed a slight limp. ‘What
happened to your leg?’ I asked. ‘Did you sprain it?’
‘No. I was shot.’
I

‘Oh. I see.’
‘It

happened a few years ago, in a battle with government

forces. The bullet passed through my shin, shattering the bone.

Since then I have not been fit enough to participate in active
service.’

We had come now to the boulder and Hagos led me round its

502

The Waste Land

side. There, although partially occluded by deep shadow, I could

quite clearly

make out the gigantic silhouette of a charging

lioness carved in low relief. It was extensively eroded. Nevertheless it conveyed a lifelike sense of ferocity and sinuous grace.
I

knew that Theodore Bent, a British traveller and amateur

archaeologist who had visited Axum in the nineteenth century,

had also seen this carving - which he had later described as ‘a
very spirited work of art, measuring io ft. 8 in. from the nose to
the tail. The running attitude is admirably given, and the sweep
of the hind legs shows that the artist had thorough command of
his subject.’ Bent had then added: ‘A few inches from the nose of
the lioness

is

a circular disk with rays, probably intended to

represent the sun.’
I

1

now examined this ‘circular disk with rays’, which turned out

to consist of two pairs of elliptical incisions cut into the bare rock.
If these incisions had been arranged around a watch-face then

the top pair would have pointed, respectively, to io o’clock and 2

o’clock and the bottom pair to 4 o’clock and 8 o’clock. I therefore

found it easy to understand Bent’s interpretation of the device: at
first glance it did indeed look like a series of spokes - or rays emanating outwards from a disk-shaped centre.
It was far from being that, however. Indeed the ‘circular disk’
that the traveller had described was an illusion. If he had
bothered to trace the complete shape defined by the spaces
between the elliptical incisions he would have found that the
result was not a representation of the sun at all but of a croix pattee
with arms that widened out from the centre point - in other
words, a perfect Templar cross.
‘Hagos,’ I said, ‘am I seeing things or is that a cross?’

As I asked this question I ran my fingers around the outline
that had immediately been so apparent to me.
‘It is

a cross,’ affirmed the

‘But

it

TPLF official.

shouldn’t be there.

The lioness is definitely pre-

Christian - so how come there’s this Christian symbol beside it?’

‘Who knows? Maybe someone added it later. There are other
crosses, just like this one, at the site of King Kaleb’s palace.’
‘If you don’t mind,’ I said, ‘I think I would very

and see them.’

much like to go

A Treasure Hard to Attain

503

The work of angels
I

had visited Kaleb’s palace in 1983 and I knew that the ruins

dated to the sixth century ad, the early part of the Christian era in

Axum. I remembered that it was a hill-top fortress with deep
2
dungeons and chambers beneath. 1 did not, however, remember
seeing any crosses there.

Now, as we drove back into town, I looked forward impatiently
to exploring the palace again. In 1983 the Templars had held no

significance for

me. My more recent research, however, had

raised the possibility that a contingent of knights could have

come from Jerusalem to Ethiopia in search of the Ark of the
Covenant at the time of King Lalibela (ad 1 185-1211) and
could later have served as bearers for the Ark itself. 3 The reader
will recall that I had found what looked like striking support for
this

theory in an eyewitness account given by the thirteenth-

century Armenian geographer Abu Salih - an account that had

spoken of the Ark being carried in Axum by men who were ‘white
and red in complexion with red hair’. 4
If those men had indeed been Templars, as I very strongly
suspected, then it was reasonable to suppose that they might have
left some mementos of their order behind in Axum. It therefore

seemed to me at least possible that the oddly out-of-place croix
pattee on the rock beside the carved lioness could have been put
there by a Templar artist.
This particular type of cross, as I knew very well, was not one
that was common or popular in Ethiopia: indeed in all my years of
travels in that country the only place in which I had ever seen one

had been on the ceiling of the rock-hewn church of Beta Maryam
in the town of Lalibela - a town that had been the capital of the
very king who I believed had brought the Templars to Ethiopia in
the first place. 5 Now I had found another croix pattee on the
outskirts of Axum and, if Hagos was right, I was about to see
several more in the ruins of King Kaleb’s palace - a structure that
could well have been still standing and inhabited in the thirteenth
century.

After driving past the grass area where the majority of Axum’s
great stelae were located,
reservoir

known

as

the

we skirted the huge and ancient
Mai Shum. In local tradition, I

504

The Waste Land

remembered, this was supposed to have been the Queen of
Sheba’s pleasure bath. Since the coming of Christianity, however, it had been used for the curious baptismal rituals associated
with Timkat. Here, in two days’ time, the Ark was supposed to be
brought in procession at the start of the ceremonies that I had

come to witness.
Leaving the Mai Shum behind us, we motored about half way
up the steep and broken path leading to the site of King Kaleb’s
palace and completed the journey on foot after first camouflaging
the car. Hagos then led me into the ruins where he poked around
for a while amongst the rubble before finally exclaiming in
triumph: ‘Here! Over here! I think this is what you want to see.’
I hurried to join him and saw that he had retrieved a block of
sand-coloured stone about two feet square and six inches thick.
Out of it had been carved four elliptical holes of precisely the
same shape and disposition as the elliptical incisions near the
carving of the lioness. In this case, however, because the holes

passed right through the block, there could be no ambiguity at all
about the shape of the remaining stone: it formed another perfect

Templar cross.
‘JAhen I was a child,’ mused Hagos, ‘I and my friends used to
play up here. In those days there were many blocks like this lying
around. I expect that all the other ones must have been removed
since then.’

‘Where would they have been taken?’
‘The townspeople constantly re-use the stones from the ruins
to build or repair their own homes. So we’re lucky to have found
this block intact
But there are other crosses, just the same
shape as this one, in the cellars under the palace.’
We made our way down a flight of stairs into the dark
dungeons that I had visited in 1983. Then, by flashlight, I had
been shown a number of empty stone coffers which the Axumites
believed had once contained great riches in gold and pearls.
Now, producing a box of matches, Hagos showed me a Templar
cross carved into the end of one of these coffers.
‘How did you know that was there?’ I asked in amazement.
‘Everyone in Axum knows. As I said, I used to play in these
ruins when I was a boy.’
He then led me into the next chamber, struck a match, and
.

.

.

A Treasure Hard to Attain

505

showed me two more Templar crosses - one, rather crudely
formed, on the far wall and another, beautifully executed, high
up on the longer side wall.
Until the flame guttered out I stood gazing up at these crosses
lost in thought. I knew that I might never be able to prove my
hypothesis to the complete satisfaction of archaeologists or

now felt certain in my own heart that the
Templars had indeed been here. The croix pattee had been their

historians, but

I

characteristic emblem, worn on their shields and on their tunics.

was entirely in keeping with everything else that I had learnt
about them that some of their number should have come down
It

here, into the obscure darkness of these dungeons, to leave that

emblem on the walls - as a kind of puzzle perhaps, or as a sign, for
future generations to wonder over.

‘Are there any traditions’, I asked Hagos, ‘about who carved
these crosses here?’

‘Some of the townspeople say that they were the work of
angels,’

replied

the

TPLF official, ‘but of course that is

nonsense.’

A bearer of bad news
I did not

hear from Hagos’s father until after night had fallen, and

when I did the news was bad. He came round to the little guest
house in which we were staying shortly after seven that evening to
tell

me that the Nebura-ed was out of town.

My first reaction, which

was
extremely unlikely that the chief priest of the Saint Mary of Zion
church would be absent at this time of year. With Timkat just
around the corner, and many preparations to make, his presence
would surely be required in Axum.
‘How unfortunate,’ I said. ‘Where’s he gone?’
‘He has gone to Asmara ... for consultations.’
‘But Asmara is still in government hands. How can he go
I

did not voice, was that

it

there?’

‘The Nebura-ed may go anywhere.’
‘And will he be back before TimkatV
‘I am told that he will not return for several days. His deputy
will stand in for him during the Timkat ceremonies.’

506

The Waste Land

‘So what does this mean for my work? Will I be able to talk to
the guardian of the Ark, for example?

There

are so

many

questions that I have to ask.’

‘Without the permission of the Nebura-edyou will be able to do
nothing.’

Hagos’s father was clearly an innocent messenger, so I had no
right or reason to feel furious with him. Nevertheless it seemed
obvious that the information he had just delivered was part of a
strategy to prevent me from learning more about the Ark.
Though they would probably be polite and friendly towards me
as individuals, the plain fact was that the monks and priests of
Axum would not co-operate with my investigation without the
permission of the Nebura-ed. Sadly, however, the Nebura-ed was
absent. Therefore I could not obtain his permission. Therefore I
would not be able to find out anything of any significance from
anyone; nor would I be able to do any of the things that I had
come so many miles to do. In this classically Abyssinian fashion, I
would be neutralized without anyone actually having to refuse me
anything. The clergymen would not have to be boorish or rude;
on the contrary they would only need to shrug and tell me with
deep regret that this or that could not be done without the
sanction of the Nebura-ed and that - on this or that matter - they
themselves were not qualified to speak.
‘Is there any way,’ I asked, ‘that we can get a message to the
Nebura-ed - about my work here?’
‘While he is in Asmara?’ laughed Hagos’s father. ‘Impossible.’
‘OK then. What about the deputy chief priest? Can’t he give
me the permission I need?’
‘I do not think so. To give you that permission he would first
have to obtain the permission of the Nebura-ed .’
‘In other words he would have to get permission to give me
,

permission?’
‘Exactly.’

‘But can’t I at least try? Can’t I even meet the deputy and
explain to him why I’m here? Who knows? He might be willing to

help me.’
‘Perhaps,’ said Hagos’s father. ‘At any rate I will talk to the

deputy tonight and I will bring you his answer tomorrow.’

A Treasure Hard to Attain

507

Sanctuary of the Ark

The next morning, Thursday 17 January 1991, we were all up
and about before dawn. Ed had wanted to shoot some general
views at sunrise and Hagos had suggested that the summit of one

of the several stony hills behind the town would provide the best
vantage point.
Accordingly, at four-thirty a.m.

we rousted Tesfaye, our

driver, out of the bed that he been sharing with a local prostitute
virtually non-stop since our arrival.

On the road before five, we

shoved the aerial of Ed’s short-wave radio out of the window.
The reception was bad, fogged with static. Nevertheless we
managed to unscramble enough of the broadcast to understand
that war had finally broken out in the Gulf, that American
bombers had flown hundreds of sorties against Baghdad during
the night, and that massive devastation had been caused.
Apparently the Iraqi airforce had not managed to send up a single
fighter in response.

‘Sounds

like

it’s

all

over,’

commented Ed with a certain

amount of satisfaction.
‘I

doubt that,’ said Hagos. ‘We will have to wait and see.’

We sat in silence for a while, listening to the continuing
reports, as Tesfaye manoeuvred us up the steep track towards the

summit we were heading for. The sky was still almost completely
dark and he was perhaps dreaming of the humid pleasures he had
so recently been enjoying; at any rate he managed to half roll the
vehicle at one point and only just avoided driving us over the edge

of a small cliff.

Ed, Hagos and I took this as our cue to get out. Leaving
Tesfaye to deal with the camouflage tarpaulin we then walked the
rest of the way to the summit.
It was a short hike through the litter of an old battlefield. ‘This

was where the last part of the Ethiopian army garrison held out
when we took Axum from them,’ explained Hagos. ‘They were
tough fighters, from the Seventeenth Division. We over-ran
them in eight hours.’
All around us were smashed military lorries, burnt-out
armoured personnel carriers and gutted tanks. And, as the sun
began to come up, I noticed that huge amounts of munitions were

508

The Waste Land

still lying underfoot.

Most of the debris consisted of spent shells

and chunks of shrapnel. There were also several 8imm mortar
bombs, rusty but unexploded, which nobody had bothered to
remove.
Eventually we reached the summit, upon which perched the
twisted and blackened wreckage of a barrack block.

There

beneath the crimson sky of morning, I stood and gazed gloomily
down on the town of Axum.
Behind me was the devastated ruin of a building. Its corrugated aluminium roof, still partially intact, creaked and groaned
eerily in the cold dawn breeze. On the ground in front of me was a
soldier’s helmet, split across the brow by some anonymous
projectile. Further off, in a crater, lay a soldier’s rotting boot.
The light was stronger now and far below I could see the
garden in the centre of Axum where the main collection of giant
stelae stood. Beyond, across a deserted square, set back in a
secluded compound, rose the battlements and towers of the great
church of Saint Mary of Zion. And by the side of that imposing
edifice, surrounded by barbed iron railings, sat a squat grey
granite chapel, windowless and barred, with a dome of green
copper. This was the sanctuary of the Ark, near and yet far away,
approachable and yet unapproachable. Within it lay the answer to
all my questions, proof or disproof of all my work. Accordingly I
looked down at it with longing and respect, with hope and
agitation, with impatience but also with uncertainty.

Men of straw

We returned to the guest house for breakfast. And there we sat
until mid-morning surrounded by a group of unusually sombre

and pensive Tigrayans - all of whom had come to hear the news
that boomed and crackled out of Ed’s short-wave radio and that
Hagos solemnly translated for them. Looking around at the
faces, young and old, handsome and plain, I was struck by the
poignancy of this intense interest in a distant war. Perhaps it
provided a distraction from the home-grown conflict that had
killed and maimed so many in this little town. Perhaps it arose
from feelings of sympathy at the thought of the savage bombing
that others were now enduring.

A Treasure Hard to Attain

509

Taking in the nuances of this scene, I realized that such
freedom of association would have been quite impossible for the
browbeaten and terrorized townsfolk in the days when the
Ethiopian government still ruled in Axum. And it seemed to me,
though there was great poverty, though the schools were closed,
though people could not move openly for fear of air strikes,
though farmers could hardly plough their fields, and though
famine threatened, that things were better here - far better - than
they had been before.
Around eleven a.m., after Ed’s filming schedule for the day had
been worked out, Hagos and I walked into town in the direction
of the main stelae park. At one point we passed a handpainted
TPLF mural which depicted President Mengistu as a ravening
demon with a blood-stained swastika on his cap and lines of
armed soldiers marching out of his mouth. Half a dozen MiGs
circled above his head and he was surrounded by tanks and
artillery.

The caption proclaimed in Tigrigna: ‘We will never

kneel before the dictator Mengistu.’

We walked on through the pot-holed streets of Axum, past
poor market stalls and empty shops, amongst the simple houses,
encountering on our way a constant stream of pedestrians monks and nuns, priests, urchins, dignified elders, peasants in
from the countryside, townsfolk, a woman carrying a huge
earthen pot of water, groups of teenage boys trying to look stylish
like teenagers everywhere. And I thought: a few years ago I would
have been quite happy to stand by while the government took all these
people away to resettlement camps.

Axum since you
expelled the government troops. I can’t quite put my finger on it,
‘Hagos,’

I

said, ‘things are so different in

but the atmosphere’s completely changed.’
‘It is because no one is afraid any more,’ the TPLF official
replied a moment later.

‘Not even of the bombing and the air raids?’
‘We fear those things, of course. But they are more of a
nuisance than a terror - and we have found ways to avoid them. In
the past, when the government was here, we could not avoid the
cruelty of the garrisons, the tortures, the random arrests. That

was the terror that oppressed us for so long. Yet when we
confronted it, do you know what happened?’

5io

The Waste Land

‘No. Not exactly.’

‘We discovered that it had been spread by men of straw and
that freedom had always been within our grasp.’

We had reached the garden of the stelae. As walked amongst
I

the great monoliths, I marvelled at the artistry and at the sheer
skill

of the forgotten culture that had conceived them. And I

remembered that in 1983 the guardian monk had told me that
they had been raised up by the Ark - by ‘the Ark and the celestial
fire’.

At the time I had not known what to make of the old man’s
words: now, with all I had learned, I knew that he could have been
telling the truth. In its history the sacred relic had worked many
great miracles: the erection of a few hundred tons of stone would
surely not have been beyond its powers.

Miracle made real

That afternoon at four Hagos’s father came to the guest house to
report that the deputy chief priest would see us. He said that for
reasons of protocol he could not accompany us there but gave us
precise directions as to where we should go.
Hagos and I then walked over to the Saint Mary of Zion
church and entered into a warren of small dwellings built around
the rear of the compound. Passing under a low arch we came to a
gateway. We knocked and were admitted to a garden where, on a
bench, sat an elderly man dressed in black robes.
When he saw us approaching he murmured a quiet command.

Hagos turned to me and said: ‘You must stay here. I will talk on
your behalf.’

An earnest conversation then ensued. Watching it from a
distance I felt

.

.

.

impotent, paralysed, nullified, invalidated. I

considered rushing forward and passionately pleading my case.

But I knew that my entreaties, however heartfelt, would fall on
ears tuned only to the rhythms of tradition.
Eventually Hagos came back. ‘I have told the deputy everything,’ he explained. ‘He says that he will not talk to you. He says
that on a matter as important as the Ark only the Nebura-ed and
the guardian monk are qualified to speak.’

‘And I assume that the Nebura-ed is still away?’

1

A Treasure Hard to Attain

51

have good news. The deputy has
accepted for you to talk to the guardian/
A few minutes later, having followed a maze of dusty paths, we
came to the Saint Mary of Zion church. Passing in front of it we
away. Yes. But

‘Still

I

arrived at the metal railings that surrounded the sanctuary

chapel.

I

stood for a while, staring through these railings.

I

calculated that with an energetic climb and a short dash I could

reach the locked door of the building in about ten seconds.

Half joking, I mentioned this idea to Hagos, who responded
with a look of genuine horror.

‘Don’t think of it,’ he cautioned.

He gestured back in the

direction of Saint Mary of Zion where half a dozen tall young

deacons were

loitering.

‘As a foreigner you

command great

But if you were to commit such sacrilege you would
certainly be killed.’
‘Where do you suppose the guardian is?’ I now asked.
‘He is inside. He will join us when he is ready.’
We waited patiently until the sun was low in the sky. Then, as
the darkness deepened, the guardian appeared. He was a tall,
heavily built man, perhaps twenty years younger than his
predecessor. Like his predecessor, his eyes were occluded with
cataracts. Like his predecessor he wore thick robes redolent of
respect.

incense.

He showed no inclination to invite us in but approached and
shook hands with us through the railings.
I asked his name.
In a gravelly voice he replied simply: ‘Gebra Mikail.’
‘Please tell him’, I said to Hagos, ‘that my name is Graham
Hancock and that I have spent the last two years studying the
history and traditions of the Ark of the Covenant. Please tell him
that I have come all the way from England, a journey of more than
seven thousand kilometres, in the hope that I will be allowed to
see the Ark.’

Hagos

relayed this message.

When he had finished the

guardian said: ‘I know. I have been informed of this already.’
‘Will you allow me to enter the chapel?’ I asked.

Hagos translated the question. There was a long pause, and
then the expected answer: ‘No, I cannot do that.’
‘But,’ I protested lamely, ‘I have come to see the Ark.’

512

The Waste Land

‘Then I regret that you have wasted your journey. Because you
will not see it. You should have known this if, as you say, you have
studied our traditions.'

knew it, and yet I hoped.'
‘Many hope. But other than myself no one may visit the Holy
Ark. Not even the Nebura-ed. Not even the Patriarch. It is
‘I

forbidden.'

‘This is a great disappointment for me.'

‘There are worse things in life than disappointment.'
I asked: ‘Can you at least tell me what the Ark looks like? I
think that I could go away content if you would tell me that.'
‘I believe that the Ark is well described in the Bible. You can
read there.’
‘But I want you to tell me in your own words what it looks like. I

mean the Ark that rests here in the sanctuary. Is it a box made of
wood and gold? Does it have two winged figures on its lid?’
‘I will

not speak about such matters

.’
.

.

‘And how is it carried?’ I continued. ‘Is it carried on poles? Or
in some other way? Is it heavy or light?’
‘I have said that I will not speak about such matters, and
therefore I will not speak.'

‘And does it perform miracles?’ I persisted. ‘In the Bible the
Ark was described as performing many miracles. So here in
Axum does it also perform miracles?’
‘It performs miracles. And it is in itself.
miracle. It is miracle
.

.

made real. And that is all that I will say.’
With this the guardian thrust his hand through the bars again
and clenched my own hand firmly for a moment as though in
farewell.
‘I

have another question,' I said insistently. ‘Just one more

question

.’
.

.

A faint, affirmative nod.
‘Tomorrow evening’, I continued, ‘is the beginning of Timkat.
Will the true Ark be brought out then, for the procession to the
Mai Shum, or will a replica be used?'
As Hagos translated my words into Tigrigna the guardian
listened, his face impassive. Finally he replied:

‘I

have already

said enough. Timkat is a public ceremony. You may attend it and

see for yourself. If you have studied as you have claimed, even

A Treasure Hard to Attain

513

though it may only have been for two years, I think that you will be
able to know the answer to your question.’
And with that he turned away and slipped into the shadows and
was gone.

The secret behind the signs
The object that was carried to the Mai Shum reservoir when the
Timkat ceremonies began late in the afternoon of Friday 18
January 1991 was a bulky rectangular chest over which was
draped a thick blue cloth embroidered with an emblem of a dove.
And I remembered that in Wolfram’s Parzival the dove, too, had
6
been the emblem of the Grail. Yet I knew, beyond any shadow of
a doubt, that what I was looking at was neither Grail nor Ark.
Rather it was in itself an emblem and a symbol, a token and a sign.
As the Falasha priest Raphael Hadane had warned me months
before, the sacred relic kept in the sanctuary chapel remained
there - jealously guarded in the Holy of Holies. What was
brought out in public procession was therefore merely a replica
of it - a replica, however, that was quite different in form from the
familiar flat tabotat that I had seen paraded during the previous
year’s celebrations at Gondar, and that did indeed accord with
the shape and dimensions of the biblical Ark.
How, then, can I be so sure that it was a replica? The answer is
simple. Not for a single moment during the whole of the two-day
ceremony did Gebra Mikail, the guardian monk, leave the
sanctuary chapel. Late in the afternoon of the 18th, as the
procession carrying the cloth-wrapped chest moved away in the
direction of the Mai Shum, I saw him sitting there behind the
iron bars, leaning against the grey granite wall of the squat
building, seemingly lost in contemplation. He did not even look
up as the priests departed, and it was plain that the object which
they bore aloft held no special importance for him.
Then, when they were gone, he disappeared inside the chapel.
Moments later I heard his slow arrhythmic chant. And had I been
permitted to move closer I knew that I would have recognized the
sweet savour of frankincense.
For what was Gebra Mikail doing, there in the thick darkness,
if not offering up a fragrance pleasing to the Lord before the Holy

514

The Waste Land

Ark of His Covenant? And why else should he, who had been
selected from amongst all his brethren to fulfil a precious trust,
have stayed closed within the sanctuary until morning, if the
sacred and inviolable relic that he had forfeited his own freedom
to guard had not remained there with him?
In this way I believe at last that I did glimpse the secret behind

enigma proclaimed in so many
wondrous signs - proclaimed and yet not revealed. For the
Ethiopians know that if you want to hide a tree you must place it
in a forest. And what else are the replicas that they venerate in
twenty thousand churches if not a veritable forest of signs?
At the heart of that forest lies the Ark itself, the golden Ark that
was built at the foot of Mount Sinai, that was carried through the
wilderness and across the river Jordan, that brought victory to the
Israelites in their struggle to win the Promised Land, that was
taken up to Jerusalem by King David, and that - around 955 bc was deposited by Solomon in the Holy of Holies of the First
Temple.
From there, some three hundred years later, it was removed by
faithful priests who sought to preserve it from pollution at the
hands of the sinner Manasseh and who bore it away to safety on
the far-off Egyptian island of Elephantine. There a new temple
was built to house it, a temple in which it remained for two
the

symbol,

the

glorious

further centuries.

When

was destroyed, however, its restless
wanderings resumed again and it was carried southward into
Ethiopia, into the land shadowing with wings, into the land
criss-crossed by rivers. Having come from one island it was taken
to another -to green and verdant Tana Kirkos - where it was
installed in a simple tabernacle and worshipped by simple folk.
For the eight hundred years that followed it stood at the centre of
a large and idiosyncratic Judaic cult, a cult whose members were
the ancestors of all Ethiopian Jews today.
Then the Christians came, preaching a new religion, and after converting the king - they were able to seize the Ark for
themselves. They took it to Axum and placed it in the great
church that they had built there, a church dedicated to Saint
the

temple

Mary the Mother of Christ.

Many more years then went by and - as the weary centuries

A Treasure Hard to Attain

515

passed - the memory of how the Ark had really come to Ethiopia

grew blurred. Legends began to circulate to account for the now
mysterious and inexplicable fact that a small city in the remote
highlands of Tigray appeared to have been selected - presumably
by God Himself - as the last resting place of the most precious
and prestigious relic of Old Testament times. These legends
were eventually codified and set down in writing in the form of
the Kebra Nagast - a document containing so many errors,
anachronisms and inconsistencies that later generations of
scholars were never able to see their way through to the single
ancient and recondite truth concealed beneath the layers of myth
and magic.
That truth, however, was recognized by the Knights Templar,
who understood its earth-shaking power and who came to
Ethiopia in pursuit of it. It was, moreover, expressed by Wolfram
von Eschenbach in his story of Parzival where the Holy Grail ‘the consummation of heart’s desire’ - served as an occult
cryptogram for the Holy Ark of the Covenant.
In Wolfram’s text the heathen Flegetanis was said to have
penetrated the hidden mysteries of the constellations and to have
declared in a reverential voice that there was indeed ‘a thing
,

He declared also that this perfect thing, this

called the Gral’.

spiritual thing, was guarded by a Christian progeny bred to a pure

And he concluded his soothsaying with these words: ‘Those
humans who are summoned to the Gral are ever worthy.’ 7
So too those humans who are summoned to the Ark - for Ark
and Grail are one and the same. I, for my part, however, was
life.

never worthy enough. I knew it even as I traversed the waste land.
I knew it as I approached the sanctuary chapel. I know it still. And
yet

.

.

.

And yet

.

.

.

‘my heart is glad, and my very soul rejoices,

and my flesh also shall rest in hope.’

Datta. Dayadhvam Damyata.
.

Shantih shantih shantih

-

References

Chapter i Initiation
1

For example, see Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Book of the Covenant’,
Hebrew Union College Annual, vol. V, 1928, reprinted by KTAV
Publishing House Inc., New York, 1968, p. 118: ‘the Ark itself

came in popular thought and speech to be identified with the
deity; the Ark itself was to all extents and purposes the deity.’ The
direct identification of the Ark with God is well illustrated in the
following passage from Numbers 10:35: ‘And it came to pass,
when the Ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up, Lord, and let
thine enemies be scattered and let them that hate thee flee before
thee’ (King James Authorized Version). The Jerusalem Bible
translation of the same verse, which makes use of Yahweh, the
name of God, reads: ‘And as the Ark set out, Moses would say,
Arise, Yahweh, may your enemies be scattered and those who hate
you run for their lives before you.’ The Interpreter's Dictionary of the
Bible comments: ‘The Ark is not only seen as the leader of Israel’s
host, but is directly addressed as Yahweh. There is virtually an
there is no doubt that
identification of Yahweh and the Ark
the Ark was interpreted as the extension or embodiment of the
presence of Yahweh’ (The Interpreter's Dictionary of the Bible: An
Illustrated Encyclopaedia, Abingdon Press, Nashville, 1962, pp.
.

.

.

222-3.
2

3

See Exodus 37:1, which gives the dimensions of the Ark as
follows: ‘two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and
a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it.’
The measurements in feet and inches are extrapolated from the
ancient cubit, which was eighteen inches. See Dr J. H. Hertz
(ed.), The Pentateuch and the Haftorahs, Soncino Press, London,
1978, p. 327. The Jerusalem Bible, footnote (b), p. 87, concurs
(Jerusalem Bible, Eyre & Spottiswoode, London, 1968).
Exodus 37:7-9.

,

References

5 18

4
5

*

i

Chronicles 28:2.

Richard Elliott Friedman, Who Wrote the Bible?, Jonathan Cape,

London, 1988, p. 1^6.
6 The Interpreter's Dictionary of the Bible, op. cit., p. 222.
7 The phrase is taken from J. Theodore Bent’s nineteenth-century

book on Axum, The Sacred City of the Ethiopians: Travel and
Research in Abyssinia in 1893, Longmans, Green, London, New
York and Bombay, 1896.
8 Eritrea was in fact decolonized in 1952. For the next ten years it
was federated with Ethiopia but kept its own separate identity. In
1962, after what was widely believed to be a rigged referendum,
the federal relationship was dissolved and Ethiopia took over full
control of the territory, which thenceforward was governed
direcdy from Addis Ababa. Haile Selassie argued that apart from
the brief colonial interlude Eritrea had always been an integral
part of Ethiopia and should remain so. Many Eritreans, however,
felt differently.

9 G. W. B Huntingford (ed.), The Periplus of the Eritrean Sea
Hakluyt Society, London, 1980.

10 Reported in A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe,^ History of
Ethiopia, Oxford University Press, 1955, pp. 32-3.

11 J. W. McCrindle (trans. and ed.), The Christian Topography of
Cosmas an Egyptian Monk, Hakluyt Society, London, 1898.
,

'The Rufinius history of the conversion of Ethiopia to Christianity
is reported at length in A. H.
Jones and Elizabeth Monroe,^
History ofEthiopia, op. cit., pp. 26-7. See also Graham Hancock,
Richard Pankhurst, Duncan Willetts, Under Ethiopian Skies,
Editions HL, London and Nairobi, 1983, pp. 34-5.
13 Reported by Richard Pankhurst, writing in Hancock, Pankhurst
and Willetts, Under Ethiopian Skies, op. cit.
14 For a full account of the findings of this dig see S.C. Munro-Hay,
1 2

M

Excavations at Axum: An Account of Research at the Ancient Ethiopian
Capital directed in 1932-34 by the Late Dr Neville Chittick Royal
,

Geographical Society, London, 1989.

Another tradition says that the coffers are in fact coffins and that
they once contained the bodies of Kaleb and Gebre-Maskal.
16 C. F. Beckingham and G. W. B Huntingford (eds), The Prester
John of the Indies: A True Relation of the Lands of Prester John, being
the Narrative of the Portuguese Embassy to Ethiopia in 1320 written by
Father Francisco Alvarez, Cambridge, published for the Hakluyt
1 5

Society at the University Press, 1961, vol. I, pp. 15 1-3.

17 Ibid., footnote 2, p. 15 1.
18 Ibid., pp. 145-8.

,

References

519

Chapter 2 Disenchantment

From Article II of the 1955 (revised) Constitution.
2 Aymro Wondemagegnehu and Joachim Motovu, The Ethiopian
Orthodox Church The Ethiopian Orthodox Mission, Addis Ababa,
1

1970, p. 48.
3

Ibid., p. 46.

4 Ibid., p. 152.

Chapter 3 The Grail Cipher
1

The book was published in 1990. Carol Beckwith, Angela Fisher,
Graham Hancock, African Ark: Peoples of the Horn, Collins
Harvill, London, 1990.

2

William Anderson, The Rise of the Gothic Hutchinson, London,
,

985, p. 34. And see in general pp. 33-7.
3 For a chronology see Chartres: Guide of the Cathedral Editions
Houvet-la-Crypte, Chartres, pp. 12-13.
1

,

4 John James, Medieval France: A Guide to the Sacred Architecture of
Medieval France, Harrap Columbus, London, 1987, p. 71.
5 Malcolm Miller, Chartres: The Cathedral and the Old Town, Pitkin
Pictorials, Norwich,

UK, pp. 13 and 18. See also Chartres: Guide

of the Cathedral, op. cit., Foreword written by Etienne Houvet,
custodian of the cathedral, p. 3.
6 Chartres: Guide of the Cathedral, op. cit., p. 53.
7 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, The Queen of Sheba and her Only Son
Menelik: being the Book of the Glory of Kings (Kebra Nagast),
’

‘

Oxford University Press, 1932, p. 29. In a conversation with
Solomon the Queen of Sheba is quoted as saying: ‘From this
moment I will not worship the sun, but will worship the creator of
because of this I have found favour
the sun, the God of Israel
with thee, and before the God of Israel, my Creator.’
8 1 Kings 10:1-13; 1 Chronicles 9:1-12.
9 For a good resume of the scholarly conventional wisdom see H. St
John Philby, The Queen ofSheba, Quartet Books, London, 1981.
.

.

.

10 Malcolm Miller, Chartres Cathedral: Illustrating the Medieval
Stained Glass and Sculpture, Pitkin Pictorials, Norwich, UK, p. 14.
11

See also Chartres: Guide of the Cathedral, op. cit., pp. 37-47.
Genesis 14:18; Psalm 110:4.

12

Malcolm Miller, Chartres Cathedral: Illustrating the Medieval
Stained Glass and Sculpture, op. cit., p. 20.

13

Chartres: Guide of the Cathedral, op. cit., p. 42.

14 See Exodus 37:1 and Chapter 1, note 2 above.
15

Chartres: Guide of the Cathedral, op. cit., p. 40.

16 Louis Charpentier, The Mysteries of Chartres Cathedral, RILKO,

,.

.

520

References

London, 1983 (originally published by Robert Laffont, Paris,
i966),p. 70.
Chartres : Guide ofthe Cathedral op. cit. p 3 7
1 8 Louis Charpentier, The Mysteries of Chartres Cathedral , op. cit., p. 68,
1 7

,

,

.

photographic section between pp. 3 2 and 33 and p.113.
1 9 See, for example, Robert Graves, The White Goddess F aber & F aber,
London and Boston, 1 988 edn, p. 1 6 1
,

,

20 Hebrews 7.
2 1 Louis Charpentier, The Mysteries ofChartres Cathedral op. cit., p.
,

US22 See D. D. R. Owen (trans.), Chretien de Troyes: Arthurian Romances,
J. M. Dent, London, 1 988, Introduction, p. x.
23 Sir Thomas Malory, LeMorted Arthur, Penguin Classics, London,

1988 - see half-tide page.
24 See Edwin H. Zeydel (trans. and ed.), The Parzival of Wolfram von
Eschenhach, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 195 i,p. 14.
See also Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival Penguin Classics,
London, 1980, Introduction, p. 8.
op. cit.,pp. 190 and 213.
25 Sir Thomas Malory,
26 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., p. 239.
27 Lady Flavia Anderson, The Ancient Secret: Firefrom the Sun, RILKO,
London, 1987^. 15.
28 Ibid.
29 Chretien de Troyes, Arthurian Romances, op. cit., p.417.
30 Ibid., pp. 417-18.
31 Ibid., p.459.

32

Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The Grail Legend,
Coventure, London, i986,pp. 29 and 1 16. (Originally published by

Walter Verlag, Olten, 1 980, and in the USA by Sigo Press, Boston,
1970.) See also A. M. Hatto’s Foreword to Wolfram’s Parzival, op.
cit., p. 7. Old Catalan grazal and Provencal grasal both also meant
‘vessel, cup or bowl of wood, earthenware or metal’.
3 3 The word ‘holy’ appears in no less than thirty books of the Old
Testament.
34 John Matthews, The Grail: Questfor the Eternal, Thames & Hudson,

London, 1987^. 12.
35 See F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 162.
36 William Anderson, The Rise ofthe Gothic, op. cit., p. 65.
37 For a discussion see M. Kilian Hufgard, ‘Saint Bernard of
C\airvaux\ Medieval Studies, vol. II, Edwin Mellen Press, 1989^.
1 43 ‘It would be impossible to calculate the full extent of Bernard’s
influence on the iconography of the early Gothic cathedrals.’
38 See John Matthews, The Grail: Questfor the Eternal, op. cit.,p. 12.
:

,

,

References

521

39 For a discussion see Bodo Mergell, Der Graal in Wolframs Parsifal
Halle, 1952. See also Encyclopaedia Britannica, Micropaedia, 15th
edn, 1991, vol. V, pp. 408-9, which states that the Queste del Saint
Graal ‘was clearly influenced by the mystical teachings of Saint
Bernard of Clairvaux’.
40 An excellent discussion of this symbolism is contained in John
Matthews, The Grail: Quest for the Eternal op. cit., pp. 14-17.
41 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
,

the Christian Church, op. cit., p. 827.

42 John Matthews, The Grail: Quest for the Eternal, op. cit., p. 15.
43

Ibid., p. 15.

44 M. Kilian Hufgard, ‘Saint Bernard of Clairvaux’, op. cit., p. 141.
45 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, op. cit., pp. 42-3 and 87-8.
46 Helen Adolf, ‘New Light on Oriental Sources for Wolfram’s
Parzival and other Grail Romances’, Publications of the Modem
Languages Association ofAmerica, vol. 62, March 1947, pp. 30624.

47

Ibid., p. 306.

‘I

am indebted’, wrote Adolf, ‘to the pioneers in this

and Singer, founders of the Ethiopian theory.’
A. N. Veselovskij had written several works on the origin of the
Grail legend which had been published in Russia between 1886
and 1904; S. Singer had been a German academic writing at
about the same time. Details of their works are to be found in
Adolfs Bibliography, p. 324.
field, to Veselovskij

48

Ibid., p. 306.

49 See, for example, Chretien de Troyes Arthurian Romances, op.
cit., Introduction by D. D. R. Owen, p. ix-xviii. See also Jessie L.
Weston, From Ritual to Romance, Cambridge University Press,
1920, particularly Chapter 6 where she specifically rejects the
cauldrons of Celtic mythology as being the prototypes for the
Grail, adding ‘these special objects belong to another line of
,

tradition altogether’ (pp. 69-70). She also rejects the other

common derivation in the Cup of the Last Supper and the Lance
of Longinus (p. 68). It was Jessie Weston’s scholarly book that
largely inspired T. S. Eliot’s poem The Waste Land. See T. S.
Eliot, Selected Poems, Faber

& Faber, London, 1961, p. 68.

50 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., p. 410.
5 1 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit. See in particular
Foreword, pp. 7-8. A typical example of the close
correspondences between the two texts is to be found in the
near-identical descriptions of the Grail procession and of the
subsequent disappearance of the Grail castle (Wolfram, pp. 12331; Chretien, pp. 415-22). The Encyclopaedia Britannica, nth

522

References
(1910) edn, confirms that Parzival was ‘beyond all doubt’ a
rendering of a ‘French original’ (entry under ‘Wolfram von
Eschenbach’, p. 775). See also Margaret Fitzgerald Richey, The
Story ofParzival and the Grail As Related by Wolfram von
,

Eschenbach, Basil Blackwell & Mott, Oxford, 1935, pp. 10-11: ‘the
external resemblances [between Wolfram’s account and

Chretien’s] are so close, not only in the ordering of the episodes

but also in points of detail, that many scholars regard Chretien’s
poem as the one specific basis of Wolfram’s.’
52 Helen Adolf, ‘New Light on Oriental Sources for Wolfram’s
ParzivaP op. cit., p. 307.
53 For confirmation of the use of stone ‘white and beautiful like
marble’ in the most precious tabots see C. F. Beckingham and
G.W.B. Huntingford (eds), The Prester John of the Indies: A True
,

Relation of the Lands ofPrester John, being the Narrative of the

Portuguese Embassy to Ethiopia in 1520 written by Father Francisco
Alvarez, Cambridge, published for the Hakluyt Society at the

University Press, 1961, vol. II, p. 543.

54 Helen Adolf, ‘New Light on Oriental Sources for Wolfram’s
ParzivaP op. cit., p. 309.
,

55 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., for example p. 240.
Another even more specific example of the Grail’s legislative
function occurs on p. 406.
,

56

246.
57 Judges 20:27-8.
58 1 Samuel 3:1-1 1.
Ibid., p.

59 1 Chronicles 28. Note in particular verse 19.
60 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., p. 243.
61 Louis Ginzberg, The Legends of the Jews, The Jewish Publication
Society of America, Philadelphia, 191 1, vol. Ill, pp. 128-9.
62 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., p. 232. Emphasis
,

added.

63 The Jewish Encyclopaedia, Funk & Wagnells, New York, 1925, vol.
II, p. 107. See also Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service
1978, reprinted by
Eisenbrauns, Winona Lake, Indiana, 1985, p. 246. Haran states
in Ancient Israel, Clarendon Press, Oxford,

the scholarly view that ‘the Ark held not the two tables of the law

but ... a meteorite from Mount Sinai’.

64 For a discussion see Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz,
The Grail Legend, op. cit., p. 148, footnote 28.
65 Jennifer Westwood (ed.), The Atlas ofMysterious Places, Guild
Publishing, London, 1987, p. 74.
66 Ibid.
67 For a lengthy and very scholarly discussion of these links see two
papers by Julian Morgenstern: ‘The Book of the Covenant’,

,,

,

References

523

Hebrew Union College Annual, vol. V. 1928; and ‘The Ark, the
Ephod and the Tent of Meeting’, Hebrew Union College Annual,
vol. XVII, 1942-3; both reprinted by KTAV Publishing House,
New York, 1968. In ‘The Book of the Covenant’, p. 1 18,
Morgenstern writes: ‘The most natural assumption is that the Ark
contained a betyl

.

.

.This conception was, of course, common

amongst the primitive Semites, and the evidence is ample that it
was current in ancient Israel.’
68 W. H. Roscher, Lexikon der griechischen und romischen Mythologie,
1884, cited in Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The
Grail Legend, op. cit., p. 148.

69 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., p. 239.
70 See, for example, Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The
Grail Legend, op. cit., pp. 149 and 157.
71 John Matthews, The Grail: Quest for the Eternal, op. cit., p. 17.
Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz also suggest a similar
derivation: The Grail Legend, op. cit., p. 148.
72 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., e.g. pp. 225, 240.
73

Ibid., pp.

126-7.

74 Tan. Terumah, XI; also, with slight variations, Yoma 39b. Cited in
The Jewish Encyclopaedia, vol. II, op. cit., p. 105.
75 I Kings 8:12.
76 Zev Vilnay, Legends ofJerusalem: The Sacred Land, The Jewish
Publication Society of America, Philadelphia, 1973, vol. I, pp.
1 1-12.

77 E.g., Exodus 40:20-38.
78 Chretien de Troyes Arthurian Romances op. cit., p. 417.
,

79 Ibid.
80 Exodus 37:1-2.
81 Exodus 37:6.

82 Exodus 34:29-30. This is the Jerusalem Bible translation, direct
from Hebrew, rather than through Greek in the case of the King
James Authorized Version {The Jerusalem Bible, Eyre &
Spottiswoode, London, 1968). The King James Version has the
two verses as follows: ‘And it came to pass, when Moses came
down from Mount Sinai with the two tables of testimony in
Moses’ hand, when he came down from the mount, that Moses
wist not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him.
And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold,
the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.’
83 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., p. 125.

84

Ibid., p. 125.

85

Ibid., p. 125.

86

Ibid., pp.

125 and 401.

524
87
88

References
Ibid., p.

239.

Ibid., p. 389.

89 1 Chronicles 15:2. Similarly see Deuteronomy 10:8.
90 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, Kebra Nagast, op. cit.
91

Ibid., p. 98.

92

Ibid., p. 79.

93

Ibid., p. 95.

94 In his translation, Sir E. A. Wallis Budge used a variety of
different words and phrases to refer to the Ark of the Covenant e.g. ‘Zion’, ‘Heavenly Zion’, ‘Tabernacle of His Law’, ‘Tabernacle
of His Covenant’, ‘Tabernacle of the Law of God’. He makes
clear at several points that these terms are all completely

interchangeable and that they refer to exactly the same thing. For

example, in his Introduction (p. xvii), he speaks of ‘the Tabernacle
of the Law of God, i.e. the Ark of the Covenant’. Likewise, within
the main body of the translation, there are several points, cross-

referenced to biblical passages, at which this interchangeability of

terms for the Ark (including ‘Zion’ and ‘Heavenly Zion’) is
unequivocally spelled out - e.g. pp. 14-15 and 178. For purposes

of clarity in my own text, and with apologies to Budge, I have

adopted the policy of simplifying this confusing terminological
spaghetti. In all my quotations from the Kebra Nagast the familiar
epithets ‘Ark of the Covenant’, ‘Ark of His Covenant’, ‘Ark of
God’, ‘Ark of the Lord’, and just plain ‘Ark’ will be used.
95 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, Kebra Nagast op. cit., p. 169.
96 Ibid. pp. 94-5.
97 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., p. 393.
,

Chapter 4 A Map to Hidden Treasure
1

Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival Penguin Classics, London,
,

1980, p. 22.
2 Ibid., p. 17.
3

Ibid., p. 22.

4 See, for example, H. St John Philby, The Queen of Sheba, Quartet
Books, London, 1981, pp. 58-60.
5

Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., p. 30.

6

Ibid., p. 27.

,

7 Ibid., p. 24.
8 Ibid., p. 34.
Ibid., p. 39.

9
10

Ibid.

11

Ibid.

References

525

12 Ibid., p. 56.
13 Ibid., p. 40.
14 Ibid., p. 66.
1 5

The complex tangle of relationships in Parzival requires some
unravelling. On pp. 439-47 of the Penguin Classics
edition, Professor A. T. Hatto provides a useful glossary of

personal names. Feirefiz is described on p. 440 as ‘Parzival’s
infidel half-brother; son of Gahmuret and his first wife Belacane’.

16 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, The Queen of Sheba and her Only Son
Menelik: being the Book of the Gloiy of Kings (Kebra Nagast),
'

‘

Oxford University Press, 1932, p. 35.
17 Ibid., p. 37.
18 Ibid., p. 38.

19 See Chapter 3, note 94 above.
20 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, Kebra Nagast op. cit., p. 102. For a
,

further example of the emphasis on skin colour in the Kebra

Nagast see p. 156.
21 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., Professor A. T.
,

Hatto’s footnote to p. 40.

22 A. N. Veselovskij, ‘On the Problem of the Origin of the Grail
Legend’, Zumal [Journal] of the [Russian] Ministry for the
Enlightenment of the People, Moscow, February 1904, p. 452. See
also Helen Adolf, ‘New Light on Oriental Sources for Wolfram’s

Parzival and other Grail Romances’, Publications of the Modem

Languages Association ofAmerica, vol. 62, March 1947, p. 310.
23 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, Kebra Nagast, op. cit., p. 46.
24 Dr E. Littman (trans. and ed.), The Legend of the Queen of Sheba in
the Tradition ofAxum, Bibliotheca Abessinica (Studies Concerning
the Languages, Literature and History of Abyssinia), vol. I,

Princeton University Library, 1904, p. 9.
25 See Chapter 3 above.

26 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., pp. 406-7.
27 Ibid., p. 408.
28 See, for example, C. F. Beckingham and G. W. B. Huntingford
(eds), The Prester John of the Indies: A True Relation of the Lands of
Prester John, being the Narrative of the Portuguese Embassy to Ethiopia
in 1520 written by Father Francisco Alvarez, Cambridge, published

for the Hakluyt Society at the University Press, 1961.

29 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., p. 408.
30 Linda B. Parshall, The Art of Narration in Wolfram's Parzival' and
Albrecht's Jiingerer Titurel

',

Cambridge University Press, 1981, p.

1.

31

Henry and Mary Garland, The Oxford Companion to German
Literature, Oxford University Press, 1986, p. 892.

,

,

References

526

*

32 Dorothy Reich, A History of German Literature Blackwood,
Edinburgh and London, 1970, p. 95.
33 Linda B. Parshall, The Art ofNarration in Wolfram's Parsival' and
Albrecht's

34

flingerer Titurel', op. cit., p. 1.

No English translation exists of Der fiingerer Titurel. That it
depicts the last resting place of the Holy Grail as being ‘the land

of Prester John’ is, however, not in dispute. Readers who wish to
follow the matter further, and who read German, are referred to

K. A. Hahn, Titurel, Leipsig, 1842. See also Werner Wolf and
Kurt Nyholm’s edited edition in several volumes in the Deutsche
Texte des Mittelalters (DTM) series, originally published by the
Academy of Sciences of the GDR, Berlin, 1955-84.
35 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parsival, op. cit., p. 408.
36 Ibid., p. 408.
37
38

Ibid., p. 373.

Ibid., p. 377.

39 See Encyclopaedia Britannica

,

1

ith (1910) end, p. 304. See also

Sergew Hable-Selassi e, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History to
1270 Haile-Selassie I University, Addis Ababa, 1972, pp. 254-5.

40

Ibid.

41 Ibid.

42

Ibid., p.261.

43 Ibid, and Encyclopaedia Britannica op. cit., p. 305.
,

44 Encyclopaedia Britannica, op. cit., p 305
45 Tor a discussion see Irmgard Bidder, Lalibela: the Monolothic
Churches of Ethiopia, M. DuMont, Cologne, p. 11.

46 See Chapter 1 above for full details.
47 Helen Adolf, ‘New Light on Oriental Sources’, op. cit., p. 306.
48 E. A. Wallis Budge, A History of Ethiopia, London, 1928, p. 178.
49 Extract from The Travels ofMarco Polo, quoted in Henry Salt ,A
Voyage to Abyssinia Frank Cass and Co., London, 1967, Appendix V.
50 Encyclopaedia Britannica, op. cit., p. 306.
51 C. F. Beckingham and G. W. B. Huntingford (eds), The Prester

John of the Indies, op. cit., see p. 5.
52

Ibid., e.g. p.

296.

53 Encyclopaedia Britannica, op. cit., p. 306.
54 Ibid., p. 306.
55

Ibid., p. 306.

56

Ibid., p. 304.

57 Ibid., p. 306 (emphasis added).
58 David Buxton, The Abyssinians, Thames & Hudson, London,
I

97°> P- 45-

59 See Chapter 3 above.
60 John Matthews, The Grail: Quest for the Eternal, Thames &

Hudson, London, 1987, p. 69.

,

References

,

527

61 Encyclopaedia Britannica, op. cit., p. 591.

Chapter 5 White Knights, Dark Continent
1

Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The Grail Legend
Coventure, London, 1986, pp. 10-11. (Originally published by

Walter Verlag, Olten, 1980, and in the USA by Sigo Press,
Boston, 1970.)
2

Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival Penguin Classics, London,
,

1980, p. 232. See also p. 213.
3 Ibid., p.410.

4

Ibid., p.

5

Ibid., p.214.

233.

6 See Jessie L. Weston’s translation of Parzival David Nutt,
,

London, 1894, ‘Excursus A: Wolfram’s Source’, pp. 191-2. See
also Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The Grail Legend
op. cit., p. 152.

7 Ibid.
8 See, for example, The Hutchinson Encyclopedia Hutchinson,
,

London, 1988, p. 481.
9 See in particular F. Kampers, Das Lichtland der Seelen und der
Heilige Gral Cologne, 1916, pp. 20-7. See also Emma Jung and
Marie-Louise von Franz, The Grail Legend op. cit., p. 152. That
great authority on Parzival, Jessie Weston, concurs. See ‘Excursus
,

,

A’ to her translation of Parzival op. cit., particularly p. 191, last
,

paragraph.

10

Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The Grail Legend op.
,

cit., p.
1 1

152.

Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., for example pp. 228,
,

393 and 406.
12 Ibid., p. 241.
13 Ibid. Professor A. T. Hatto’s ‘Introduction to a Second Reading’,
p- 438.

14 Margaret Fitzgerald Richey, The Story of Parzival and the Graal, As
Related by Wolfram von Eschenbach Basil Blackwell & Mott,
,

Oxford, 1935, p. 198.
15

Ibid., p.

21 1. See also p. 198: ‘This identification with the

Templars is very striking, and what else is told in connection in
the text of Parzival agrees with the character of that Order.’

16 Louis Charpentier, The Mysteries of Chartres Cathedral

,

RILKO,

London, 1983, p. 68.
17 As, for example, in Gaetan Delaforge, The Templar Tradition in the
Age ofAquarius, Threshold Books, Vermont, 1987, p. 68.
18 The principal source for discussion of Wolfram’s visit to the Holy

,

528

References

,

*

Land is Karl Bertau, Deutsche Literatur im europaischen
Mittelalter C. H. Beck, Munich, 1974.
19 1 Chronicles 28:2. 'The words are those of Solomon’s father,

King David, who had hoped to build the Temple for the Ark, but
who had been instructed by God to leave this task to Solomon.
20 William of Tyre, A History of Deeds done Beyond the Sea (E.
Babcock and A. C. Krey trans.), Octagon Books, New York, 1986,
vol. I, pp.

524-5.

21 Encyclopaedia Britannica, nth edn, 1910, p. 593.

22 Edward Burman, The Templars: Knights of God, Aquarian Press,

Wellingborough, 1986, p. 21.
23 John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood Century, London, 1990, p. 66.
Originally published in the USA in 1989 by M. Evans.
24 Encyclopaedia Britannica, Micropaedia, 15th edn, 1991, vol. Ill, p.
133. The city was sold to the King of France in 1286.
25 Edward Burman, The Templars op. cit., p. 27. Saint Bernard’s
mother, Aleth, was Andre de Montbard’s sister.
26 Interestingly, it is thought possible that Saint Bernard himself
provided the model for Sir Galahad, the hero of the Cistercian
Queste del Saint Graal. See Edward Burman, The Templars op. cit.,
p. 30. See also Encyclopaedia Britannica, Micropaedia, 15th edn,
1991, vol. V, pp. 79-80 and 408-9.
27 John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood, op. cit., p. 66.
28 'Edward Burman, The Templars, op. cit., p. 21.
29 Chretien de Troyes, Arthurian Romances J. M. Dent, London,
,

,

,

,

1988, D. D. R. Owen’s Introduction, p. ix.

30 Steven Runciman,^ History of the Crusades, Penguin Books,
London, 1987, vol. II, p. 157.
31 Ibid. See also Encyclopaedia Britannica, nth edn, 1910, p. 591.
Then, as now, the Mosque of Omar, better known as the Dome
of the Rock, stood over the site of Solomon’s Temple. See also
F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of the
Christian Church, Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 1345.
32 Steven Runciman,^ History of the Crusades op. cit., vol. II, p.
157

-

33 John G. Robinson, Bom in Blood, op. cit., p. 66.
34 Steven Runciman,^ History of the Crusades, op. cit., vol. II, p. 157.

35 Meir Ben-Dov, In the Shadow of the Temple: The Discovery of
Ancient Jerusalem, Harper & Row, New York, 1985 and Keter
Publishing House, Jerusalem, 1985, p. 347.

36

Ibid.

37 Zev Vilnay, Legends ofJerusalem: The Sacred Land, Jewish
Publication Society of America, Philadelphia, vol. I, 1973, p. 1 1.
38 See Professor Richard Elliott Friedman, Who Wrote the Bible?,

,

References

529

Jonathan Cape, London, 1988, Chapter 1, pp. 155-6, quoted in
Chapter 1, p. 7 above.

39 Zev Vilnay, Legends ofJerusalem, op. cit., p. 1 1.
40 Ibid., pp. 123 and 324, note 136. See also N. A. Silberman,
Digging for God and Country, Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1982,
p. 186. See also ‘The Syriac Apocalypse of Baruch’ in H. F. D.
Sparks (ed.), The Apocryphal Old Testament Clarendon Press,
Oxford, 1989, pp. 843 and 844.
41 Malcolm Barber, ‘The Origins of the Order of the Temple’,
Studia Monastica, vol. XII, 1970, pp. 221-2.

42 Jean Richard, Le Royaume Latin de Jerusalem, Presses
Universitaires de France, Paris, 1953, p. 105.
43 Ibid.

44

Emma Jung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The Grail Legend, op.
cit.,

pp. 13 1 and 126.

45 See the essay on relics in John James, Medieval France: A Guide to
the Sacred Architecture ofMedieval France, Harrap Columbus,

London, 1987, pp. 36-40.
46

Ibid., p. 39.

47 Gaetan Delaforge, The Templar Tradition in the Age ofAquarius, op.
cit.,

48

p. 68.

Ibid.

49 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, op. cit., p. 162.

50 Edward Burman, The Templars, op. cit., p. 23.
51 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, op. cit., pp. 162 and 1345.
52

Ibid., p. 162.

53

Ibid., pp.

162 and 1345. See also Encyclopaedia Britannica, nth

edn, 1910, p. 591.

54 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, op. cit., pp. 1345-6.
55 For a discussion of the financial activities of the Templars see
Edward Burman, The Templars, op. cit., pp. 74-97.
56 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, op. cit., p. 162: ‘In the disputed election

which followed the death of Pope Honorious II in 1130 Bernard
sided with Innocent II against the antipope, Anacletus, and was
eventually successful in securing Innocent’s victory.’

57 In the Papal Bull Omne Datum Optimum. See Edward Burman,
The Templars, op. cit., p. 41.
58 S. Howarth, The Knights Templar, London, 1982, p. 194.

59 Ibid., pp. 193-560 C. N. Johns, ‘Excavations at Pilgrim’s Castle, Atlit, 1932’,

,

530

References

,

*

Quarterly of the Department ofAntiquities in Palestine vol. Ill, no. 4,

1933. pp- 145-6461 John Wilkinson, Joyce Hill and W. F. Ryan (eds ), Jerusalem
Pilgrimage iogg-1185, Hakluyt Society, London, 1988, p. 294.

62

Ibid.

63 Meir Ben-Dov, In the Shadow of the Temple op. cit., p. 346.
64 John Wilkinson, Joyce Hill and W. F. Ryan (eds), Jerusalem
,

Pilgrimage iogg-1185, op. cit., p. 294.

65 Louis Charpentier, The Mysteries of Chartres Cathedral, op. cit., p.
70.

66 For a general discussion see M. Kilian Hufgard, ‘Saint Bernard of
Clairvaux’, Medieval Studies vol. II, Edwin Mellen Press, 1989.
See in particular pp. 140-1 and 143-50.
67 Quoted in Robert Lawlor, Sacred Geometry: Philosophy and Practice
Thames & Hudson, London, 1989, p. 10.
68 Ibid.
69 M. Kilian Hufgard, ‘Saint Bernard of Clairvaux’, op. cit., pp.
,

148-9.

70

Ibid., p. 139.

71 Ibid., p. 129.
72 Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History to
1270 Haile-Selassie I University, Addis Ababa, 1972, pp. 265,

7
3' Encyclopaedia Britannica
7
-

nth edn, 1910, p. 306. See also A. H.
M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe,^ History of Ethiopia, Clarendon
,

Press, Oxford, 1966, p. 53: ‘There can be little doubt that the

King, whose envoy had discourse with Master Philip, was the

King of Abyssinia, who was the only Christian King in the Near
East who could have sent such an embassy.’

74 Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History to
1270, op. cit., pp. 239-87.
75 See David Buxton, The Abyssinians, Thames & Hudson, London,
I 97°, pp. 44 ff. See also Jean Doresse, Ancient Cities and Temples
ofEthiopia, Elek Books, London, 1959, p. 92, and Sergew
Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History to 1270 op.
cit., pp. 225-32.
76 See Wolf Leslau, Falasha Anthology, Yale University Press, New
Haven and London, 1979, Introduction, pp. xx-xi.
77 Richard Pankhurst, An Introduction to the Economic History of
Ethiopia from Early Times to 1800, Lalibela House/Sidgwick &
Jackson, London, 1961.
78 Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History to
,

1270, op. cit., p. 265.

79

A good summary of this legend is given by Professor Richard

1

References

53

Pankhurst in Graham Hancock, Richard Pankhurst and Duncan
Willetts, Under Ethiopian Skies Editions HL, London and
Nairobi, 1983, pp. 58-9. For further details, see J. Perruchon, Vie
de Lalibela, roi dEthiopie Paris, 1892, and Gedle Lalihela (Amharic
translation from Ge’ez ), Haile-Selassie I University, Addis Ababa,
,

,

1959

-

80 Sergew Hable-Selassie,

and Medieval Ethiopian History to
1270 op. cit., see in particular pp. 265 and 266. Lalibela’s
sojourn in Jerusalem in also reported in Jean Doress t, Ancient
Cities and Temples ofEthiopia, op. cit., p. 1 13.
Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History op.
,

81

,

p. 265.

cit.,

82

Ibid.

83 See David Buxton, TheAbyssinians, op. cit., p. 44. See also
Irmgard Bidder, Lalibela: the Monolithic Churches ofEthiopia, M.

DuMont, Schauberg, Cologne, pp. 14 and 108.
84 Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History, op.
cit., pp. 272-3. See also Jean Doress z, Ancient Cities and Temples
of Ethiopia, op. cit., p. 113.
85 Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History, op.
cit.,

86

p.

1 12.

Ibid., p.

262.

87 David Buxton, TheAbyssinians, op. cit., p. 45.
88 A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe, A History ofEthiopia, op.
cit., p. 53. In October 1990 I visited the Ethiopian monastery on
the roof of the Chapel of the Invention of the Cross.
89 A good account of the restoration of the Solomonic dynasty is
given in Richard Pankhurst,
Introduction to the Economic History
of Ethiopia, op. cit., pp. 60-71.

90 Encyclopaedia Britannica, op. cit., p. 594.
91 For example see Helen Adolf, ‘New Light on Oriental Sources
for Wolfram’s Parzival and Other Grail Romances’, Publications of
the

Modem Languages Association ofAmerica, vol. 62, March 1947,

p. 308.

92

An English translation of the letter is given in full in Sergew
Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History, op. cit., pp.

255-6193 Ibid.

94

Ibid.

95 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge (trans. and ed.), The Bandlet of
Righteousness: An Ethiopian Book of the Dead, Luzac, London,
1929. See, for example, pp. 41 ff.
96 This conflict, and its implications, are discussed in Chapter 6
below.

,

532

,

References

97 Full text of the letter in Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and
Medieval Ethiopian History op. cit., pp. 255-61.

98

Ibid.

99 Irmgard Bidder, Lalibela op. cit., p. 29.
100 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., for example pp. 406,
393 and 241.
,

101 Ibid., p. 406.
102 Ibid., p. 251.

103

Ibid., p.

252.

104
105

Ibid., p.

252, footnote.

An independent state from ad 1056 until it passed to the

Habsburgs in the thirteenth century, Styria was annexed by Hitler
in 1938 and is now an alpine province of south-east Austria
(capital Graz). Slovenes are included amongst the inhabitants of
the province - and Wolfram mentions Slovenes after referring to
‘the Rohas’. This insertion of a deliberate ambiguity into his text,
leaving room for two or more possible interpretations, is the sort
of technique that Wolfram repeatedly employs in his encoding of
vital information. In this way he veils the truth he wishes to convey
in an alternative meaning that most will accept as the only possible
meaning of his words.
106 For details of the Templar croix pattee see Andrea Hopkins,
Knights, Collins & Brown, London, 1990, pp. 72-91.
107 'UNESCO was involved in the restoration of some of the Lalibela
churches in the 1960s and subsequendy adopted them as a world
heritage site. They are described as ‘A remarkable coupling of

engineering and architecture and a unique artistic achievement.’

See A Legacy for All: The World's Major Natural, Cultural and
Historic Sites,

UNESCO, Paris, 1982, p. 74.

108 See, for example, D. R. Buxton, ‘The Christian Antiquities of
Northern Ethiopia’, Archaeologica, no. 92, 1947, p. 23.

109 C. F. Beckingham and G. W. B Huntingford (eds), The Prester
John of the Indies A True Relation of the Lands of Prester John,
being the Narrative of the Portuguese Embassy to Ethiopia in 1520
written by Father Francisco Alvarez, Cambridge, published for the
Hakluyt Society at the University Press, 1961, vol. I. pp. 1 1-13.
1 10 Ibid., p. 223.
:

hi Ibid., p. 226.
1

12 Ibid., p. 227.

1

13

Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, op. cit., p. 406.

1

14

Ibid., p. 406.

.

References

533

Chapter 6 Resolving Doubts
1

Le R. P. Dimotheos, Deux ans de sejour enAbyssinie: ou vie morale,
politique et religieuse desAbyssiniens, Jerusalem, 1871, p. 137.

2 Ibid., p. 1 41
3

Ibid., p.141.

4

Ibid., p.143.

5

As noted in Chapter 1 above, the sanctuary chapel was built by the
late Emperor Haile Selassie in 1965.

6 Again, see Chapter 1 above.
7 Le R. P. Dimotheos Deux ans de sejour enAbyssinie, op. cit.,p. 141.
8 Ibid., p.141.
,

9 Sergew Hable-Selassi z, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History to
12 jo, Haile-Selassie I University, Addis Ababa, 1972.
I

o See Chapter 3 above.

II

Exodus 37:1-2.

12 B. T. Evetts (trans. and ed.), Abu Salih, Churches and Monasteries of

Egypt and some Neighbouring Countries, Oxford, 1895.
13

Ibid., p.287.

14

Ibid., p.288.

Numbers 4:5-6.
16 For a short summary of the place of Amharic and other northern
15

Ethiopic languages within the Semitic language group as a whole see

Edward Ullendorff, The Ethiopians: an Introduction to Country and
People, Oxford University Press, London, 1973, Chapter 6,

‘Languages’, pp. 1 1 1 ff. Arabic is also a Semitic language, and

Amharic has the second largest number of speakers of any Semitic
language after Arabic.
17

See, for example, Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Ark, the Ephod and the

Tent of Meeting’ in Hebrew Union College Annual, vol. XVII, 19423,
1

KTAV Publishing House, New York, 1968, p. 249.

8 See for example Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-J ewish Elements in

Abyssinian (Monophysite) Christianity \ Journal ofSemitic Studies,
vol. I, no. 3, 1956, p. 233, footnote 6.

He says that tabotis ‘derived

from the Jewish Pal. Aramaic tebuta (tebota) which in turn is a
derivation from Hebrew tebah .’
1 9 See Genesis 6:7 ff. The first reference to Noah’s Ark as tebah comes in
verse 1 4 of this chapter.

20 See Exodus 2:3. For confirmation that tebah is used in the Bible to
refer to the Ark of Noah and also to Moses’s Ark of bulrushes see
Bruce Metzger, David Goldstein, John Ferguson (eds), Great Events
ofBible Times: New Perspectives on the People, Places and History ofthe
Biblical World, Guild Publishing, London, 1989^. 12.
21 E. A. Wallis Budge, The Queen ofSheba and her Only SonMenelik:

534

References
being the

n

Book of the Glory of Kings (Kebra Nagast), Oxford
’

‘

University Press, 1932, pp. 14-15.

22

Ibid., p. 14.

23 Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic -Jewish Elements in Abyssinian
(Monophysite) Christianity’, op. cit., p. 234. Ullendorff also

advances the same argument in his excellent Ethiopia and the Bible:
The Schweich Lectures 1967, published for the British Academy by

Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 84.
24 Edward Ullendorff, ‘The Queen of Sheba in Ethiopian
Tradition’, in James B. Pritchard (ed.), Solomon and Sheba,
Phaidon Press, London, 1974, p. 108.
25 Kebra Nagast op. cit., Introduction, p. xlii.
26 Jean Doress t, Ancient Cities and Temples ofEthiopia, Elek Books,
London, 1959, p. 21.
27 A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe,^ History ofEthiopia,
Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1966, p. 16.
28 Kebra Nagast, op. cit., p. 29.
29 See Chapter 2 above.
30 Edward Ullendorff, Ethiopia and the Bible, op. cit., p. 18.
31 Ibid., pp. 1 17 and 17-21.
,

32

Ibid., pp.

16-17.

33 For an informative account of the negative impact of Christian
missionary activity on Falasha culture, see David Kessler, The
Ealashas: The Forgotten Jews of Ethiopia, Schocken Books, New
York, 1985.
34 Date from The Jerusalem Bible, Eyre & Spottiswoode, London,
1968, Chronological Table, p. 345.
35 J. M. Flad, Falashas ofAbyssinia, London, 1869, p. 3.
36 For a good and up-to-date reference on Jewish festivals see
Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, Jerusalem
Publishing House, Jerusalem, 1989. For Hanukkah see p. 319.

37

See also J. S. Trimingham, Islam in Ethiopia, Frank
Cass, London, 1965, pp. 20-1. This scholarly and meticulously
Ibid., p. 576.

researched book, first published in 1952, contains a

recommendable general round-up on Ethiopia, ‘The Region and
its

Folk’, pp. 1-3 1.

38 Henry A. Stern, Wanderings among the Falashas in Abyssinia,
London, 1862. Reprinted by Frank Cass, London, 1968, p. 188.

39 Ibid., pp. 188-9.
40 In fact a few years later Stern was punished, on the order of the
Ethiopian Emperor Tewodros who had him flogged within an
inch of his life (though not because he had interfered with the
Falashas). Stern was imprisoned, along with several other
Europeans, and was eventually rescued by the Napier expedition

,

References

535

to the citadel of Magdala which cost the British taxpayer several

million pounds.

41 Date from The Jerusalem Bible op. cit., Chronological Table, p.

343

-

42 Leviticus 17:8-9.
43 See Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.) The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, op. cit.,
p.

615.

44 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 1221.
,

45 Ibid.

46

Ibid. See also Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia of

Judaism, op. cit., pp. 618 and 693.

47 Ibid., pp. 481-3 and 695-6.
the only Jews in the world whose worship
48 ‘[The Falashas]. are
is focussed upon sacrifice on the altar’, J. S. Trimingham, Islam in
.

.

.

Ethiopia, op. cit., p. 21.

49 See, for example, David Kessler, The Falashas, op. cit., p. 69 and
Wolf Leslau, Falas ha Anthology, Yale University Press, New Haven
and London, 1979, pp. xxvi ff.

50 James Bruce, Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile in the years
iy68 i/6g, 1770, 1771, 1772 and 1773, Edinburgh, 1790, vol.
,

I,

51

p. 500.

For Bruce’s views on this subject, see for example Travels, vol. II,
p. 293 in which he describes Judaism as being the religion of
Ethiopia ‘long before Christianity’.

52 Before the sack of Magdala the manuscript was seen by Flad and
translated for him by the Emperor’s librarian. See J. M. Flad,
Falashas ofAbyssinia, op. cit., p. 4.

53 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. I, p. 485.

54

Ibid.

55 See, for example, A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe, A
History ofEthiopia, op. cit., p. 30. See also Jean Doress t, Ancient
Cities and Temples ofEthiopia, op. cit., pp. 85-6.

56 Kebra Nagast, op. cit., pp. 225 ff.
57 For confirmation of the Falashas’ own use of the term Beta Israel,
see for example Wolf Leslau, Falas ha Anthology, op. cit.,
Introduction, p. ix. The word ‘Falasha’ itself is derived from an
ancient Ethiopic term meaning ‘Immigrant’ or ‘Stranger’.
58 See note 94 to Chapter 3 above. For the use of ‘Zion’ as an
epithet or synonym for the Ark of the Covenant in the Kebra
Nagast see Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, Kebra Nagast, op. cit., for
example, pp. 14-15 and 178-79. See also p. 223.
59 Kebra Nagast, op. cit., p. 227.
60 Ibid., pp. 226 and 227.

References

536
61

A full translation of Eldad’s treatise is given in Elkan Adler,Jewish
Travellers, London, 1930. See p. 1 1.

62 For a discussion, see TheJewish Encyclopaedia Funk and Wagnalls
Co., New York, 1925, vol. V, pp. 90-1. See also The UniversalJewish
,

Encyclopaedia vol. IV. p. 46.
,

63 Date from TheJerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p, 344.
64 Quoted in Elkan Adler, Jewish Travellers op. cit., p. 13.
,

65 See for example David Kessler, TheFalashas, op. cit., p. 68 ff. See
also Encyclopaedia Judaica, vol. VI, which Kessler cites extensively.

See also Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, op.
cit., pp. 568-70, and Wolf Leslau Falas ha Anthology, op. cit.,
,

Introduction, p. xxiii.

66 Quoted in Elkan Adler, Jewish Travellers, op. cit., p. 1 2.
67 Ibid. ,p. 11.
68 Benjamin of Tudela’s book of travels is translated in Elkan Adler,
Jewish Travellers, op. cit., see p. 60.
69 R. L. Hess, ‘An Outline of Falasha History’ Journal ofEthiopian
Studies, no. 6, Addis Ababa, 1967. See also Elkan Adler, Jewish
,

Travellers op. cit., p. 153.
,

70

S. Mendelssohn, TheJews ofAfrica, London, 1920.

7 1 Joseph Halevy, La Guerre de Sarsa-Dengel contre les Falachas, Paris,

1907.

72

Ibi d.Adonai is, of course, one of the Hebrew names of God.

73 'Ibid.

74 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. II, p. 293.
75 Ibid., vol. I, p. 486.
76 Joseph Halevy, Travels in Abyssinia, London, 1877.
77 Reported in David Kessler, TheFalashas, op. cit. - to whose account
I

am greatly indebted.

78 TheFalashas: TheJews ofEthiopia, Minority Rights Group Report no.
67, London, July 1985.
79 See Chapter 2 above.

80 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, Penguin Classics, London,
1980, p. 125.

Chapter 7 A Secret and Never-Ending Quest
For the adoption of Christianity by the Roman Empire under
Constantine see, for example, J. M. Roberts, The Pelican History ofthe
World, Penguin, London, 1981, pp. 281-4. For details on the
civilization, power and prosperity of the Axumite Empire see
Chapter 1 above.
2 Edward Gibbon, The History ofthe Decline and Fall ofthe Roman
Empire, London, 1788.
1

References

537

See Chapter 4 above for a discussion.
4 See, for example, Edward Burman, The Templars: Knights of God,
Aquarian Press, Wellingborough, 1986. See also Malcolm Barber,
The Trial of the Templars Cambridge University Press, 1989.
5 Malcolm Barber, The Trial of the Templars op. cit., page 45.
6 See F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary
of the Christian Church Oxford University Press, 1988, pp. 117
and 1 1 9.
3

,

,

,

7 Ibid., p. 300.
8 Malcolm Barber, The Trial of the Templars op. cit., p. 2.
,

9 Ibid., p. 3.
10 James Bruce, Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile in the years

1768 1769, 7770, 777/, 7772 and 1773, Edinburgh, 1790, vol.
,

1,

11

p. 528.

Ibid., p. 530.

12 Ibid., p. 530. Interestingly, the notion that Ethiopia might take
steps to interrupt the flow of the Nile to the disadvantage of Egypt
is still in circulation.

In January 1990, for instance, aware of the

close military and economic co-operation that was then being

developed between Ethiopia and Israel, the Egyptian government
officially warned Ethiopia and Israel not to ‘tamper’ with the Blue

Nile. See The Independent, London, 6 January 1990, p. 16.

See Edward Burman, The Templars op. cit., p. 123.
14 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. I, p. 530.
13

15

,

Ibid., p.532.

16 For a discussion, see Chapter 5 above.
17 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. I, p. 528.
18 B. T. Evetts (trans. and ed.), Abu Salih, Churches and Monasteries

of Egypt and some Neighbouring Countries, Oxford, 1895.
19 Ibid., p. 288. Emphasis added.
20 This rendering of ‘blond hair’ instead of ‘red hair’ is given in a
direct translation from the original made by that great linguist

Professor Edward Ullendorff in his Ethiopia and the Bible: The

Schweich Lectures 1967, published for the British Academy by the

Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 26.
21 Secrecy was enshrined within the rule that governed the Templar
order, and betrayal of secrets was punishable by expulsion or
worse. See for example Edward Burman, The Templars, op. cit., p.
46. See also John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood, Century, London,
199°, p. 77.

22 O. G. S. Crawford (ed.), Ethiopian Itineraries circa 1400-1324,
Cambridge University Press for the Hakluyt Society, 1958, p.
212.

23 Ibid., pp. 213 and 214.

53 «

References

24 Extract from Foresti’s chronicle translated in Ibid., p. 215.
25 Ibid., p. 212.
26 Ibid., pp. 214-15.'
27 The significance of the data is indeed that it confirms a meeting
with Pope Clement V somewhere in 1306. That meeting may not
necessarily have taken place in Avignon - which anyway was not
part of France at that time and which did not become the official
seat of the Pope until the year 1309. Between 1305 (the date of
his coronation in Lyons) and March of 1309, when he officially
took up residence in Avignon, Clement V had an itinerant
existence, travelling around France and basing himself temporarily
in various cities. It is possible that he did meet with the envoys in
Avignon: even though he had not yet established his official seat
there in 1306 he could well have been temporarily in residence at
the time. Alternatively the envoys may have travelled to meet him
elsewhere in France. Foresti’s abstract from the original chronicle
was made nearly two hundred years after that chronicle was
written. It may be surmised that the original did not even state
where in France the meeting between the envoys and the Pope
took place. If so Foresti may be excused for jumping to the
conclusion that the venue was Avignon since that was the Pope’s
official seat for most of his period in office. Foresti may simply not
have known that he did not move there officially until 1309. At
any rate, establishing the precise venue of the meeting is a matter
* of minor significance. The point is that a meeting did take place.
For a discussion of these issues see E. Ullendorff and C. F.
Beckingham, The Hebrew Letters of Prester John, Oxford University
Press, 1982, pp. 6-7.

28 This is confirmed, for example, in Richard Pankhurst, An
Introduction to the Economic History ofEthiopia from Early Times to

1800 Lalibela House/Sidgwick & Jackson, London, 1961, pp.
,

64 - 5 See also Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, The Queen of Sheba and her
-

Only Son Menelik: being the Book of the Glory of Kings (Kebra
’

‘

Nagast), Oxford University Press, 1932, Introduction, p. xxxvii.

29 Kebra Nagast op. cit., Introduction, pp xvi and xxli.
30 Mordechai Abir, Ethiopia and the Red Sea Cass, London, 1980, p.
,

,

47

-

31 Malcolm Barber, The Trial of the Templars, op. cit., pp. 47-8.

32

Ibid., p. 48.

33 Possibly as many as twenty-four knights. See Malcolm Barber,
The Trial of the Templars op. cit., p. 46.
,

34 See, for example, John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood op. cit,, p. 138.
35 See Malcolm Barber, The Trial of the Templars op. cit., pp. 1 93—
,

,

220.

36

Ibid., p.

203.

,

References

539

37 See John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood op. cit., pp. 150-1.
38 Ibid., pp. 1 50-1.
39 Ibid., p. 153. See also O. A. Haye, The Persecution of the Knights
Templars, Edinburgh, 1865, p. 114.
40 The Monymusk Reliquary, which may now be seen at the
National Museum of Antiquities, Queen Street, Edinburgh. It is
said to have been modelled on the Temple of Solomon. For

accounts of its role at Bannockburn see article by David Keys in

41

The Independent, London, 29 July 1989, p. 38. See also Robert the
Bmce, Pitkin Pictorials, London, 1978, p. 15.
The oldest Masonic documents, the Old Charges, date back no
earlier than the mid- 1300s, i.e. just after the suppression of the
Templars. See, for example, Alexander Horne, King Solomon's
Temple in Masonic Tradition, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough,
1972, p. 25.

42 Kenneth Mackenzie, The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia, Aquarian
Press, Wellingborough, 1987 (first published 1877). See pp. 84
and 420-1.
43 Ibid. See pp. 593-4 and 719-22.

44

Ibid., p.325.

was in 1717, after four centuries of complete secrecy, that
Freemasonry first officially declared its existence.
46 Kenneth Mackenzie, The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia, op. cit., pp.
45

It

719-22.
47 John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood, op. cit.

48

Ibid., p. 137.

49 Hyginus Eugene Cardinale (ed.), Orders of Knighthood, Awards and
the Holy See, Van Duren Publishers, 1985, p 27.
50 Ibid., pp. 27 and 207-8.
51 Ibid., p. 27. Papal confirmation took the form of the granting of a
constitution:

52

Ad ea ex quibus.

A small and intrepid group of Dominican friars went to Ethiopia
as evangelists in the fourteenth century (and it is a matter of some

interest that they were sent by the same Pope, John XXII, who

had granted confirmation to the Order of Christ). Somewhat later,
in the fifteenth century, a Venetian painter named Nicholas

Brancaleone was attached to the court of Emperor Baeda Mariam.
53 Zurara, quoted in Edgar Prestage, The Portuguese Pioneers, Adam
& Charles Black, London, 1933, p. 158.

54
55
56

Ibid., p. 27.

Ibid., pp.

165-6.

57
58

Ibid., pp.

168-70.

Ibid., pp. 215-16.

Ibid., p. 170.

.

.

References

540

%

59
60

Ibid., p. 30.

61

Ibid., p. 27: ‘Henry was a crusader by disposition.’

62

Ibid., pp. 27 and 1 60.

63

Ibid., p. 29.

Ibid., pp. 32 and 212-13.

64 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival Penguin Classics, London,
,

1980, p. 232.

65 Edgar Prestage, The Portuguese Pioneers, op. cit., pp. 161 and 155.

66

Ibid., p. 1 54.

67
68

Ibid., p.170.

69
70

Ibid.

Ibid.

Ibid.

7 1 Encyclopaedia Britannica, Micropaedia, 1 5th edn, 1991, vol. V, p.

100.

72 Edgar Prestage, The Portuguese Pioneers, op. cit., pp. 25 1-2.
73

Ibid., p.257.

74

Ibid.

75

Ibid., see Chapter XII.

76

A useful account of Covilhan’s journey to Ethiopia is provided by
James Bruce in Travels, op. cit., vol. II, pp. 1 03-1 3 See also Edgar
.

Prestage, The Portuguese Pioneers, op. cit., pp. 2 1 4-2 1

77 Edgar Prestage, The Portuguese Pioneers, op. cit., p. 2 16.
78' A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe, A History ofEthiopia,
Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1966, p. 62.
79 C. F. Beckingham and G. W. B. Huntingford (eds), The PresterJohn
ofthe Indies: A True Relation ofthe Lands ofPresterJohn, being the
Narrative ofthe Portuguese Embassy to Ethiopia in 1520 written by
Father Francisco Alvarez, Cambridge University Press for the Hakluyt
Society, 1961, vol. I, p. 227.

80

Ibid., p.226.

81

Captain Sir Richard F. Burton, First Footsteps in East Africa, London,

894, reprinted Darf Publishers, London, 1 986, vol. II, p. 5
82 Ibid., p. 6. See also James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. II, pp. 162-72,
1

and A. H.

M Jones and Elizabeth Monroe, History ofEthiopia, op.

cit.,pp. 82-3.

83 Jean Doress e, Ancient Cities and Temples ofEthiopia, Elek Books,

London, 1959, p. 127.
84 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. II, p. 1 64.
85 A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe, History ofEthiopia, op. cit., p.
83-

86 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol II, p. 173.
87 Quoted in Philip Carman, The Lost Empire: the Story oftheJesuits in
Ethiopia, Sidgwick & Jackson, London, 1985, p. 8.

,

References

541

88 Edward Gibbon, The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire op. cit.
89 The best overall account of Don Christopher’s mission is given by
Bruce, Travels op. cit., vol. II, pp. 181 ff. Sir Richard Burton,
First Footsteps op. cit., pp. 6-1 1, also contains useful material. In
,

,

addition, the campaign is well covered in all the general histories.

90 James Bruce, Travels op. cit., vol. II, p. 185.
91 Reported in The Itinerario ofJeronimo Lobo The Hakluyt Society,
London, 1984, pp. 206-7.
92 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. II, pp. 187-8.
,

,

90-1.

93

Ibid., pp.

94

Ibid., p. 418.

1

95 A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe, History ofEthiopia, op. cit.,
p. 108. Professor Edward Ullendorf, The Ethiopians, Oxford
University Press, 1973, p. 76. The tradition of the Ark’s sojourn

on Lake Tana during and after the Gragn campaigns is well
known in Ethiopia and was repeated to me in an interview with
the Head of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in Britain,
Archpriest Solomon Gabre Selassie. The answers to the questions
that I addressed to the archpriest were given to me in writing on
12 July 1989.

96 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. II, p. 409. Philip Carman, The
Lost Empire, op. cit., p. 156.

97 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. I, pp. 481-2.
98 Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘James Bruce of Kinnaird’, Scottish
Historical Review, T. Nelson, Edinburgh, 1953, p. 129.

99 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 598.
100 See, for example, discussion in Alan Moorehead, The Blue Nile,
Penguin Books, London, 1984, pp. 34-5. See also Professor
Edward Ullendorff, ‘James Bruce of Kinnaird’, op. cit., pp. 133—
6

.

101 For Bruce’s comments on Paez see, for example, Travels, op. cit.,
vol. II, pp. 244, 245, 266, 344, and vol. Ill, p. 617. Likewise an

extensive treatise on Lobo’s book (which had been translated into

English by Dr Samuel Johnson in 1735 &sA Voyage to Abyssinia)

appears in vol. Ill of Travels, pp. 133-41. See also vol. Ill, p. 426
for a further comment on Lobo.

102 Indeed he not only failed to give them credit for their
achievements but also blatantiy plagiarized their accounts. Here,
for example, is Paez on his own visit to the twin springs which lie
to the south of Lake Tana and which are regarded as the source
of the Blue Nile: ‘On April 21 in the year 1618, being here
together with the king and his army, I ascended the place and

observed everything with great attention; I discovered first two

.

542

.

.

References

round fountains, each about four palms in diameter, and saw, with
the greatest delight, what neither Cyrus, the king of the Persians,
nor Cambyses, nor Alexander the Great, nor the famous Julius
Caesar, could ever discover. The two openings of these fountains
have no issue in the plain at the top of the mountain, but flow
from the foot of it. The second fountain lies abut a stone cast west
from the first’ (quoted in Alan Moorehead, The Blue Nile, op. cit.,
P- 34 )-

Jeronimo Lobo reached the source some twelve years after Paez,
around the year 1630. Here is his description: ‘The source of this
famous river, the object of so much searching but hidden for so long,
is discovered ... on a very gradual slope made by a certain
mountain, seeming rather more like a rather irregular field than a
mountain slope with quite an expanse of open, flat ground, where
one can see for a fair distance. In this gradually rising plain, one
discovers, in the driest part of summer, two circular pools or wells of
water, which we can more appropriately call pits four spans in width
and separated from each other by a distance of a stone’s throw
The whole plain, especially the part near the said wells ... is swollen
and the reason it does not swallow
and undermined with water
up anyone who walks on it is that, since all the land is green and this
part has many various grasses and herbs, the roots are so intertwined
they can support anyone who walks on the field’ ( The
that
'Itinerario ofJeronimo Lobo op. cit., p. 228).
Bruce’s own ‘discovery’ was made on 4 November 1770 (a
century and a half after Paez and Lobo) and was preceded by his
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

,

guide pointing out to him a ‘hillock of green sod ... in [which] the

Throwing off my
two fountains of the Nile are to be found
shoes, I ran down the hill towards the little island of green sods,
which was about two hundred yards distant; the whole side of the
hill was thick grown over with flowers, the large bulbous roots of
which appearing above the surface of the ground
occasioned
two very severe falls before I reached the brink of the marsh; I
after this came to the island of green turf
and I stood in
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

rapture over the principal fountain which rises in the middle of it.
‘It is

easier to guess than to describe the situation of my mind at

that moment - standing in that spot which had baffled the genius,

industry, and inquiry of both ancients and modems for the course

of near three thousand years. Kings had attempted this discovery
at the head of armies, and each expedition was distinguished from

the last only by the difference of the numbers which had perished,

and agreed alone in the disappointment which had uniformly, and
without exception, followed them all
Though a mere
private Briton I triumphed here, in my own mind, over kings and
.

.

.

,

.

References

543

their armies’ (James Bruce, Travels op. cit., vol. Ill, pp. 596-7).

As I read and re-read Bruce’s description I could not help but
feel that it was a kind of bastardized pastiche of the earlier
experiences of Paez and Lobo (mixing the intertwined roots and
swollen green marshes of the latter with the former’s allusions to
kings and conquerors). Moreover, as I have already stated, it

cannot be denied that the Scottish traveller was thoroughly
familiar with the writings of both his predecessors.
103 Alan Moorehead, The Blue Nile, op. cit., p. 49. Professor Edward
Ullendorff, in his paper ‘James Bruce of Kinnaird’, op. cit.,
describes Bruce as ‘one of the great universal savants and men of
action of the eighteenth century’ and quotes the comment of the

brothers d’Abbadie, the French explorers, who said that they had

consulted the Travels as a daily text-book and ‘had never
discovered a mis-statement, and hardly even an error of any
considerable importance’.

104 James Bruce, Travels op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 615.
105 Ibid., p. 1 3 1
106 Reported in ‘the Annals of Emperor Iyasu I’ in I. Guidi (ed.),
Annales Iohannis 7 Iyasu 7 Bakajfa, Paris, 1903, pp. 15 1-9. See
also Jean Doress z, Ancient Cities and Temples of Ethiopia, op. cit., p.
180. See also R. Basset, ‘Etudes sur 1 ’histoire d’Ethiopi C, Journal
,

,

,

Asiatique, Octobre-Novembre-Decembre 1881, p. 297.

107

subsequendy learned from Professor Richard Pankhurst
(conversation in Addis Ababa Tuesday 4 December 1990) that
Bruce had in fact owned copies of the two principal documents of
Iyasu’s life, the full chronicle and the abbreviated chronicle. Both
these documents tell the story of the king going into the Holy of
Holies and opening the Ark. In his Travels Bruce gave a potted
history of all the solar eclipses and comets that had been seen in
Ethiopia during the few centuries prior to his own visit. In this
potted history he drew extensively on Iyasu’s abbreviated
chronicle, which had mentioned a sighting of Richaud’s Comet in
1689. As Pankhurst put it: ‘The point is this. After describing the
comet, the abbreviated chronicle goes on in the very next paragraph
to report Iyasu’s encounter with the Ark in 1690. So Bruce must
have known about it. That being so, his suggestion that the relic
had been destroyed by the Muslims in the early 1500s does
I

indeed look suspicious.’
108 James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. I, pp. 365-492.

109
1

10

Ibid., vol. I, pp. 471-3.
Ibid., vol. I, p. 472.

hi Ibid., vol.
1 12

I,

pp. 472-3. See also pp. 444-6.

Ibid., vol. I, p. 475.

,

References

544
1

13 Ibid., vol. I, p. 476.

1

14

1

Ibid., vol.

pp. 471 and 478.

15 Ibid., vol. Ill, pp. 128-33. E.g.: ‘On the 18th, in the morning, we
came into the plain wherein stood Axum’ (p. 128); and: ‘On
0
the 19th of January, I found the latitude of Axum to be 14 6' 36"
.

.

.

north
1

I,

.

.

.’

(p.

133).

16 See Chapter 1 above.

1 1 7

The tradition of the original Ark being brought out only at Timkat
is also confirmed,

for example, in Ruth Plant, Architecture of the

Tigre, Ethiopia, Ravens Educational and Development Services,

Worcester, 1985, p. 206: ‘It is said that the original Ark of the

Covenant, brought by Menelik I from Jerusalem, is held in the
Treasury. Only one monk is allowed to see it, although the casket
is led in procession at the
1 18

time of Timkat.

’

Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘James Bruce of Kinnaird’, op. cit.,
p. 141.

1

19 Ibid., p. 141.

120

Ibid., p. 141.

James Bruce, Travels op. cit., vol. I, pp. 483-4.
122 Alan Moorehead, The Blue Nile, op. cit., p. 31.
1 21

,

123 Kebra Nagast, op. cit., Budge’s Introduction, pp. xxxii and xxxiii.
124 Around the third to second centuries bc. See R. H. Charles

The Book ofEnoch, Society for the Propagation of
Christian Knowledge, London, 1987, Introduction, p. xiii.
125 H. F. D. Sparks (ed.). The Apocryphal Old Testament, Clarendon
Paperbacks, Oxford, 1989, p. 170: ‘Among the Ethiopic
manuscripts that Bruce brought back were three containing what
is now known as “1 Enoch” or “Ethiopian Enoch”. One of these
manuscripts (now in the Bodleian Library at Oxford) contained “1
Enoch” only; the second (also in the Bodleian) contained “1
Enoch” followed by Job, Isaiah, “the Twelve”, Proverbs, Wisdom,
Ecclesiastes, Canticles and Daniel; the third (now in the
(trans.),

Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris) is a transcript of the second.’

126 Kenneth Mackenzie, The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia, op. cit., pp.
200-2.
127 Ibid.
128 Major F. B. Head, The Life ofBruce, the African Traveller London,
1836.

129 J. M. Reid, Traveller Extraordinary: The Life ofJames Bruce of
Kinnaird, Eyre & Spottiswoode, London, 1968.
130 Elgin occupied the position of Grand Master Mason of Scodand,
1961-5. Debretts Illustrated Peerage, Macmillan, London, 1985, p.
412.

,

References

545

Chapter 8 Into Ethiopia
For further details see Chapter 12 below.
2 Richard Pankhurst, writing in Graham Hancock, Richard
Pankhurst and Duncan Willetts, Under Ethiopian Skies Editions
HL, London and Nairobi, 1983, p. 24. See also Yuri Elets,
Emperor Menelik and his War with Italy Saint Petersburg, 1898.
1

,

,

Chapter 9 Sacred Lake
1

James Bruce, Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile in the Years
1768 7769, 7770, 7777, 7772 and 1773, Edinburgh, 1790, vol.
,

Ill, pp.

425-7.

2 E.g. Sergew Hable-Selassie, Ancient and Medieval Ethiopian History
to 1270 , Addis Ababa,

1972, p. 26.
3 See note 102 to Chapter 7 above.
4 See, for example, Alan Moorehead, The Blue Nile Penguin Books,
,

London, 1984, pp. 12-13 an ^ 34 See also Major R. E.
Cheesman, Lake Tana and the Blue Nile: An Abyssinian Quest,
Macmillan, London, 1936.
5 Alan Moorehead, The Blue Nile, op. cit., p. 17.
6 For a further discussion see, for example, Lucie Lamy, Egyptian
Mysteries, Thames & Hudson, London, 1981, pp. 7-8.
7 H. L. Jones (ed.), The Geography of Strabo, Loeb Library, London,
*

1940.
8 E. L. Stevenson, Geography of Claudius Ptolemy, New York, 1932.

9 Aeschylus, Fragment 67, quoted in Jean Doyzssz, Ancient Cities
and Temples ofEthiopia, Elek, London, 1959.

10 For a discussion see Edward Ullendorff, Ethiopia and the Bible,

Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 2.

James Bruce, Travels, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 387.
12 See for example Gaalyah Cornfeld, Archaeology of the Bible Book by
Book, Harper & Row, San Francisco, 1976, pp. 25 and 1 18.
11

13

Leviticus 4:6.

14 Leviticus 5:9.

DD

(trans.), The Mishnah, Oxford University
15 Herbert Danby
Press, 1933, pp. 166, 167 and 168.

16 Ibid., p. 168.

Chapter 10 Ghost in a Maze
1

E. A. Wallis Budge, The Queen of Sheba and Her Only Son Menelik
being the Book of the Glory of Kings (Kebra Nagast), Oxford
’

University Press, 1932, p. 145.
2

Which had supposedly taken place during the reign of Solomon in

References

546

Jerusalem, i.e. in the tenth century bc. Axum was not founded
until some eight hundred years later. See S. C. Munro-Hay,

Excavations at Axum, British Institute in Eastern Africa, London,

1989, pp. 19-24.
3 E.g. the guardian monk. See Chapter 1 above. E. A. Wallis Budge
also (wrongly) makes the assumption that Menelik’s destination

with the Ark was Axum. In the Introduction to his English
translation of the Kebra Nagast he states: ‘The Tabernacle of the

Law of God, i.e. the Ark of the Covenant, had been brought from
Jerusalem to Axum by Menelik, Solomon’s firstborn son,
according to the Ethiopians.’ Many Ethiopians do say this. It is
significant, however, that the Kebra Nagast makes no such claim

and only specifies ‘Debra Makeda’ as the place to which the Ark
was brought. For the Budge passage quoted above see Kebra
Nagast op. cit., Introduction, p. xvii.
,

4 Major R. E. Cheesman, Lake Tana and the Blue Nile: An
Abyssinian Quest, Frank Cass, London, 1968 (first published
1936), PP- 174-5 an d 179* Cheesman, who visited Tana Kirkos
in the early 1930s, was also told of the Ark traditions on the island
(see pp. 174-80). This is the only other reference to these

traditions that I have been able to find in the literature - a

reflection of the extreme isolation of Tana Kirkos and of the fact

that the island has never been the subject of a proper scholarly or

archaeological study.
5

Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival Penguin Classics, London,
,

1980. See, for example, pp. 132 and 392-405.

6 Margaret Fitzgerald Richey, The Story of Parzival and the Grail as
Related by Wolfram von Eschenbach Basil Blackwell & Mott, Oxford,
,

9 ^- Another interpretation of the meaning of
Munsalvaesche is ‘wild’ or ‘savage’ mountain. See, for example,
1

935

,

I

P-

footnote by Professor A. T. Hatto to Wolfram von Eschenbach,

Parzival op. cit., p. 123.
,

7 Psalm 130:3-7. Emphasis added.
8 See for example The New Collins Thesaurus Collins, London and
,

Glasgow, 1984, p. 594.
9 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., p. 121.
,

20-1.

10

Ibid., pp.

1 1

Confirmation of this fact is available in a wide range of sources,

1

for example in the survey of Christian and Jewish Ethiopian

customs provided by J. S. Trimingham in his authoritative Islam in
Ethiopia Frank Cass, London, 1976, p. 26. See also David
Kessler, The Falashas: The Forgotten Jews of Ethiopia, Schocken
Books, New York, 1985, p. 68.
12 1 Kings 9:26: ‘And king Solomon made a navy of ships in
,

.

.

References

547

Ezion-geber, which is beside Elath, on the shore of the Red sea,
in the land of Edom.’ For the identification of Ezion-geber with

modern Elat see, for example, Gaalyah Cornfeld, Archaeology of the
Bible Book by Book Harper & Row, San Francisco, 1976, pp.
,

1

10— 1 1

13 Kebra Nagast, op. cit., pp. 77-8: ‘And they loaded the wagons, and
the horses, and the mules in order to depart
And as for the
.

.

.

wagons, no man hauled his wagon
and whether it was men, or
horses, or mules, or loaded camels, each was raised above the
ground to the height of a cubit; and all those who rode upon beasts
were lifted up above their backs to the height of one span of a man,
and all the various kinds of baggage which were loaded on the
beasts, as well as those who were mounted on them, were raised up
to the height of one span of a man, and the beasts were lifted up to
the height of one span of a man. And everyone travelled in the
wagons
like an eagle when his body glideth above the
.

.

.

.

.

.

wind.’
1

4 See for example BiblicalArchaeology Review May/June 1 988, p.
,

3 i-

Kebra Nagast, op cit. p 7 8
1 6 I later confirmed that the T akazze was frequently referred to by
Ethiopians as ‘the Nile’ and vice versa - for example, in Axumite
texts of the fourth century and many later documents. Fora
discussion see L. P. Kirwan, ‘The Christian Topography and the
Kingdom of Axum’, GeographicalJournal, London, vol. 138, part
1 5

.

,

.

June 1972, pp. 172-3.
1 7 I later learned that this same route was much more than just
plausible. Throughout recorded history it had been greatly
favoured by merchants and by pilgrims travelling between Ethiopia
andjerusalem. See O. G. S Crawford Ethiopian Itineraries,
Cambridge University Press for the Hakluyt Society, London,
II,

,

I9s8
1 8 James Bruce, Travels to Discover the Source ofthe Nile in the Years
1768, 176Q, 1770 1771, 1772 and 1773, Edinburgh, 1790, vol. Ill, p.
-

,

252.

19 J. M. Flad, Falashas ofAbyssinia, London, 1 869, p. 10.
20 See, for example, The Falashas: TheJews ofEthiopia, Minority
Rights Group Report Number 67, London, 1985. See also David
Kessler, The Falashas, op. cit., p. 10, and Professor Edward

Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic -Jewish Elements in Abyssinian

(Monophysite) Christianity’, Journal ofSemitic Studies, vol. I, no. 3,
1956, p.254.

David Kessler, The Falashas, op. cit., p. 92.
22 In general for historical detail on trade and pilgrimage routes
21

,

.

.

References

S 4«

between Ethiopia and Jerusalem through Egypt and the Sudan see
Ethiopian Itineraries, op. cit.

Chapter 1 1 And David danced before the Ark
1

.

.

F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary ofthe

Christian Church

Oxford University Press, 1 988, p. 465.

2 Ibid.
3 See, for example, Richard Pankhurst,^ Social History ofEthiopia,
Institute of Ethiopian Studies, Addis Ababa University, 1990, pp. 41

and 193.
4

The absolute non-recognition by Coptic Christians of the unique
tabot/Ark traditions of Ethiopia was forcefully confirmed in June

989 in an interview in London with Bishop Serabion and F ather
Bishoi Boushra of the Coptic Orthodox Church. The interview was
carried out on my behalf by Caroline Lasko, a freelance researcher.
Aymro Wondmagegnehu andjoachim Motovu, The Ethiopian
Orthodox Church, The Ethiopian Orthodox Mission, Addis Ababa,
1

5

97°,pp. 1 1-14.
6 The Independent, London, 20 November 1 990, p. 1 1
7 Ibid. See also TheFalashas: TheJem ofEthiopia (Minority Rights
Group Report No. 67), Minority Rights Group, London, 19855 pp.
I

12-13.
8

F rederick C Gamst, TheQemant:A Pagan -Hebraic Peasantry of
.

Ethiopia, Holt, Rinehart

& Winston, New York, 1969.

9 Ibid., p. 4.
10 Ibid., p. 122.

Genesis 12:9-10.
12 Genesis 41 127.
11

13

Leviticus 1 1 13-4, 7 ‘Whatsoever parte th the hoof, and is cloven
:

footed, and cheweth the cud, among the beasts, that shall ye eat.

Nevertheless these shall ye not eat of them that chew the cud, or of

them that divide the hoof: as the camel, because he cheweth the cud,
but divideth not the hoof; he is unclean to you

.

.

.

And the swine,

though he divide the hoof and be cloven footed, yet he cheweth not
the cud; he is unclean to you.’
14 See Deuteronomy 14:21: ‘Ye shall not eat of anything that dieth of
itself.’ See also Leviticus 17:13-14: ‘And whatsoever man there be
of the children of Israel
which hunteth and catcheth any beast or
fowl that may be eaten; he shall even pour out the blood thereof.
For it is the life of all flesh; the blood of it is for the life thereof:
therefore I said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall eat the blood of
no manner of flesh: for the life of all flesh is the blood thereof.’
15 Exodus 23:19 and 34:26; Deuteronomy 14:21.
.

.

.

.

.

References

1

6

549

Compare Exodus 3 5 2-3 ‘Six days shall work be done, but on the
:

:

seventh day there shall be to you an holy day, a Sabbath of rest to the

Lord: whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death. Ye shall
kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the Sabbath day.’

17 Genesis 21:33.
1 8 In his Archaeology ofthe Bible Book by Book (Harper & Row, San
Francisco, 1976, p. 65), Gaalyah Cornfeldputs it this way: ‘Altars

were the focal point of both high places, bamoth and temples. The
bamoth were essentially Canaanite sites of worship, but were
acceptable also in earlier Israelite religion. They were usually open
areas, with sacred trees and stone pillars, masseboth associated with
,

,

the altar.’

19 See, for example, Judges 6:25, 1 Kings 16:33; 2 Kings 21:3; 2

Kings 23:15; Isaiah 27:9.
20 2 Kings 23:7.
21 The Falashas: Thefem ofEthiopia (Minority Rights Group Report
No. 67), op. cit., p. 9.
22 Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, Jerusalem
Publishing House, Jerusalem, 1989, p. 684.
Ibid., p.

548.
she shall be
24 Leviticus 15:19: ‘If a woman have an issue [of] blood
put apart seven days: and whosoever toucheth her shall be unclean

23

.

.

.

until the even.’

25

‘And in the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be
circumcised’, Leviticus 12:3.

26 Leviticus 1:9.
27 See Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-Jewish Elements in
Abyssinian (Monophysite) Christianity’, Journal of Semitic Studies
vol. I, no. 3, London, 1956, pp. 249-50. Ullendorff states: ‘The
by Jews and
date of circumcision on the eighth day is shared
Ethiopians only. This is the more remarkable because members of
the Coptic Church in Egypt [which was responsible for Ethiopia’s
conversion] are circumcised at an age between six and eight years,
and Gallas, Muslims and other influences in Ethiopia, with widely
varying dates, would all combine to shake the Ethiopian
confidence in the eighth day. Yet this date has been steadfasdy
maintained, no doubt under the influence of the Pentateuchal
injunction ... I have no doubt that the maintenance of
circumcision among Abyssinians is part of those elements of
Hebraic-Jewish lore which have been so tenaciously preserved in
,

.

.

.

that part of Africa.’

28

243-4.
29 Ibid., pp. 245-6. See also Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The
Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, op. cit., pp. 192-4 and 604-6.
Ibid., pp.

550

References

30 Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-Jewish Elements’, op. cit.,
pp. 242-3 and 247, note 3.
31 See in particular Exodus 19:15 and Leviticus 20:18.
32 Genesis 32:32: ‘Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the
sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh.’
33 Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-Jewish Elements’ op. cit.,
p. 242.

34

Ibid., p.

236. I am greatly indebted to Professor Ullendorffs

paper for alerting me to these correspondences.
35 Exodus 28:4.

36

Ibid.

37 Ibid. See also Exodus 28:17-21.
38 Archbishop David Matthew, Ethiopia London, 1947, p. 12.
,

39 Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-Jewish Elements’, op. cit.,
P- 235-

40

235-6.

Ibid., pp.

41 This also was the view of the Scottish traveller James Bruce, who
argued that Frumentius and other Christian missionaries who

came to Ethiopia in the fourth century ad, ‘finding Jewish
traditions confirmed in the country, chose to respect them rather
than refute them. Circumcision, the doctrine of clean and unclean
meats, and many other Jewish rites and ceremonies are therefore
part of the religion of the Abyssinians at this day.’ James Bruce,
Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile in the Years 1768, 176Q
/770, 1771, 1772
Ill, p.

,

,

and 1773, 3rd edn, Edinburgh, 1813, vol.

13.

42 Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-Jewish Elements’, op.
cit., p. 227 (emphasis added).
43 Ibid., p.251.

44 Leviticus 16:2-13.
45 Leviticus 16:13.

46 Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-Jewish Elements’, op.
cit., p. 238, quoting Isenberg’s Dictionary of theAmharic
Language London, 1841, p. 112.
,

47 The begegna is a hand-held, ten-stringed wooden harp, today
found only in Ethiopia and said to be descended from the biblical
Harp of David. See Tesfaye Lemma, Ethiopian Musical
Instruments, Addis Ababa, 1975, p. 10.

48 2 Samuel 6:5-16.
49 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, Penguin Classics, London,
1980, p. 121.

50 And throughout the Pharaonic period. See Adolf Erman, Life in
Ancient Egypt, Dover Publications, New York, 1971, pp. 279, 296,

390

.

References
51

II

Chronicles 5:12-13. See also 1 Kings 8:11.

52

II

Chronicles 6:41 (Jerusalem Bible translation, Eyre &

551

Spottiswoode, London, 1968, p. 464).

53 Sir Gavpain and the Green Knight, translated by J. R. R. Tolkien
and edited by Christopher Tolkien, Unwin Paperbacks, London,
1988, pp. 26 and 21.

Chapter 1 2 Magic ... or Method?
1

Date from The Jerusalem Bible Eyre & Spottiswoode, London,
,

1968, ‘Chronological Table’, p. 343.
2 These dimensions in feet and inches are extrapolated from the
ancient cubit which measured approximately eighteen inches. See

Dr J. H. Hertz (ed.), The Pentateuch and the Haftorahs, Soncino
Press, London, 1978, p. 327. The Jerusalem Bible, footnote (b),
p. 87, concurs.

3

The translation given here is from the Jerusalem Bible. The King

James Authorized Version states ‘corners’ instead of ‘supports’ in
Exodus 25:12.
4 Exodus 25:10-22.
5 Exodus 31:2-4.
6 Exodus 37:1-9.
7 ‘I came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the Ark’,
Deuteronomy 10:5, supposedly quoting Moses’s own words. See
also Exodus 40:20, ‘He [Moses] took the Testimony and placed it
inside the Ark. He set the shafts to the Ark and placed the throne
of mercy on it.’
8 Exodus 40:21: ‘He [Moses] brought the Ark into the Tabernacle
and put the screening veil in place; thus he screened the Ark of
Yahweh, as Yahweh had directed Moses.’
9 Leviticus 10:1.
10 Ibid.
1 1

Leviticus 10:2. The full passage reads: ‘And there went out fire

from the Lord and devoured them and they died there before the
Lord’ (King James Authorized Version). The Jerusalem Bible
translation of the same, which makes use of ‘Yahweh’ (YHWH),
the mystical name of God, reads as follows: ‘Then from Yahweh’s
presence a flame leaped out and consumed them and they
perished in the presence of Yahweh.’ It is important to stress that
in this and many other similar contexts the Bible is actually and
quite explicitly referring to the Ark when it speaks of ‘the Lord’
and/or ‘before the Lord’, or of ‘Yahweh’ and/or ‘in the presence
of Yahweh’. This is best illustrated by the following passage from
Numbers 10:35: ‘And it came to pass, when the Ark set forward,

552

References
that Moses said, Rise up, Lord, and let thine enemies be scattered

and let them that hate thee fall before thee’ (King James
Authorized Version). The Jerusalem Bible translation of the same
verse reads: ‘And as the Ark set out, Moses would say, Arise,
Yahweh, may your enemies be scattered and those who hate you
run for their lives before you.’ The Interpreter's Dictionary of the
Bible comments: ‘The Ark is not only seen as the leader of Israel’s
host, but is directly addressed as Yahweh. There is virtually an
identification of Yahweh and the Ark
there is no doubt that
the Ark was interpreted as the extension or embodiment of the
presence of Yahweh.’ The Interpreter s Dictionary of the Bible: An
Illustrated Encyclopaedia, Abingdon Press, Nashville, 1962, pp.
.

.

.

222-3.
12 Leviticus 16:1-2, amalgam of King James Authorized Version

and Jerusalem Bible translations.
13 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, Jewish Publication Society of
America, Philadelphia, 1911, vol. Ill, p. 210.

14 Ibid. Compare Exodus 40:35.
15 The Ark was installed in the Tabernacle on the first day of the

month of the second year after the Israelites had fled Egypt
(Exodus 40:17). It was on the eighth day of the same month that
the priests were invested and the deaths of Nadab and Abihu
occurred (Leviticus 9:1 et seq.). The entry of Moses into the Holy
first

of Holies to which I am referring here took place soon after, and

indeed in the same month, since this entry is described in Chapter
7 of the book of Numbers and since Chapter 9 of the same book
is still set ‘in the first month of the second year’ - clearly an
eventful period (Numbers 9:1).
16

Numbers 7:89.

17 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 210.
18 Ibid., vol. Ill, p. 157. See also The Jewish Encyclopaedia, Funk &

Wagnells, New York, 1925, vol. II, p. 105.
19

Numbers 10:33, 35-6, Jerusalem Bible translation.

20 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 228.
21 Julian Morgenstem, ‘The Book of the Covenant’, in Hebrew Union
College Annual, vol. V, 1928, reprinted by KTAV Publishing
House, New York, 1968, p. 20, footnote 25. See also The Jewish
Encyclopaedia, op. cit., vol. II, p. 105.

22 E.g. during the crossing of the Jordan. See The Jewish
Encyclopaedia, op. cit., vol. II, p. 105.

23 Ibid. And see also Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit.,
vol. Ill, p. 194.

24 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 395.
Another legend, supported by Midrashic commentaries, says that

References

553

during the wilderness wanderings: ‘The Ark gave the signal for
breaking camp by soaring high and then swiftiy moving before the

camp at a distance of three days’ march’ (Ibid., vol. Ill, p. 243).
25 Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Book of the Covenant’, op. cit., pp.
27-8: ‘The oldest Biblical references to the Ark agree absolutely
in representing it as discharging two specific functions, that of

choosing the way it wished to go, and that of going into battle with
the army of Israel and giving it victory over its enemies

.

.

.

These

two important functions the Ark was able to discharge, all the
evidence indicates, because of a positive divine power resident in it.

And all these earliest sources agree in identifying this divine
power with Yahweh’ (emphasis added). For further corroboration
of the frequency with which the Ark was taken into battle see
Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. Ill, pp. 284 and
409; vol. IV, p. 143.
26 The Jewish Encyclopaedia op. cit., vol. II, p. 106.
,

27 Numbers 14:44-5 (amalgam of King James Authorized Version
and Jerusalem Bible translations).
28 Exodus 16:35. There has been a great deal of scholarly debate
about whether the Israelites really did spend forty years in the
desert (making Moses approximately 1 20 years old when the

wanderings ended) or whether the period was shorter than this.
Likewise the vast numbers of the Israelites given in the Bible
(600,000 men on foot, plus their families) have been hotly
disputed on ecological grounds - since Sinai could never have
sustained such a population. Both these points are irrelevant to my
argument. For the record, however, I suspect that the Israelites
spent a good deal less than forty years in the wilderness: four years

sounds far more likely. And I suspect that their numbers were
small - a few hundreds or thousands at the most.
29 Numbers 31:2-11.

30 Numbers 22:1.

Numbers 20:28.
32 Numbers 20:24-8.
33 Numbers 27:12-23.
31

34 Deuteronomy 34:4-6, 10-12.

Deuteronomy 31:14-15.
36 Joshua 3:3-4 (King James Authorized Version translation).
Emphasis added.
35

37 Joshua 3:6, 14-17; Joshua 4:18, 21, 23.
38 Joshua 6:11, 13-16, 20-1.
39 E.g. Joshua 7:3 ff. which tells of battle being started without the
Ark and of the resulting defeat; Joshua 7:6 which inserts the Ark
back into the narrative; and Joshua 8:1 ff. which tells of the

References

554

ultimate Israelite victory. See also Joshua 10:10 ff., which almost
certainly recounts the participation of the Ark in another
significant victory. Similarly Joshua 10:29-30 ff, especially verse

42.

40 See, for example, Joshua 18:1-10; 19:51; 21:2; 22:9; Judges
18:31; 21:19; and 1 Samuel 1:3-9 an d 24; 3:21.
41 See Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Ark, the Ephod and the Tent of
Meeting’, Hebrew Union College Annual, vol. XVII, 1942-3,
reprinted by KTAV Publishing House, New York, 1968, pp.
235-6: ‘It [the Ark] was not carried into ordinary battles.’
42 1 Samuel 4:1-2 (amalgam of King James Authorized Version and
Jerusalem Bible translations).
43 1 Samuel 4:3 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
44 1 Samuel 4:4-5 (King James Authorized Version translation).
45 1 Samuel 4:6-9 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
46 1 Samuel 4:10-1 1.
47 1 Samuel 4:13, 15-17 (King James Authorized Version
translation); and 1 Samuel 4:18-19 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
48 Encyclopaedia Britannica, 15th edn, 1991, vol. XIV, p. 786.
49 1 Samuel 4:22.
50
51

52
53

54
55

Samuel 5, complete text.
1 Samuel 6:1.
1 Samuel 6:2 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
i» Samuel 6:7 (King James Authorized Version translation).
1 Samuel 6:12 (King James Authorized Version translation).
1 Samuel 6:13-14, 19 (King James Authorized Version
1

translation).

56 See for example 1 Samuel 6:19, Jerusalem Bible translation. See
also the same verse in the New English Bible Oxford and
Cambridge University Presses, 1970, p. 308, and in the Holy
,

New International Version The Bible Societies./ Hodder &
Stoughton, UK, 1988. This latter states: ‘But God struck down
some of the men of Bethshemesh, putting seventy of them to

Bible:

,

death because they had looked into the Ark of the Lord.’ See also

Handbook to the Bible, Lion Publishing, London, 1988, p. 234.
57 Two of the biblical translations (Jerusalem Bible and New English
Bible) imply that the men were killed because they had not
rejoiced when they saw the Ark of Yahweh; the King James
Authorized Version and the New International Version, on the
other hand, specifically say that they were killed because they
looked into the Ark. This latter interpretation is supported in the
Handbook to the Bible, op. cit., p. 234 and by Julian Morgenstern
in ‘The Ark, the Ephod and the Tent of Meeting’, op. cit., p. 241.
58 1 Samuel 6:20 (New English Bible translation).

5

References
59
60

555

Samuel 6:15.
1 Samuel 7:1. A Christian church dedicated to ‘the Virgin Mary
Ark of the Covenant’ now stands at Kiriath-Jearim. See Chapter 3
1

above.

Samuel 7:1. The Jerusalem Bible states that a certain Eleazar
was appointed ‘to guard the Ark of Yahweh’. The New English
Bible states that he was its ‘custodian’.
62 Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Ark, the Ephod and the Tent of
61

1

Meeting’, op. cit., p. 241, footnote 143.

63 S

Jerusalem Bible op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 343.
,

64 2 Samuel 6:3-4; 6-7.
65 2 Samuel 6:9-10 (New English Bible translation).
66 2 Samuel 6:10 (New English Bible translation).
67 2 Samuel 6:11 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
68 Louis Ginzberg, The Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. VI, p. 275.
69 2 Samuel 6:12 (King James Authorized Version translation).
70 E.g. 1 Chronicles 15:15.
71

2 Samuel 6:15.

72 2 Samuel 6:5.
73 1 Chronicles 16:1. See also 1 Chronicles 17:45.
74 1 Chronicles 28:2.
75 Jerusalem Bible op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 344.
76 1 Kings 6:38 states that the Temple took eleven years to build.
77 1 Kings 8:1, 3, 4, 5, 6 (amalgam of King James Authorized
Version and Jerusalem Bible translations).
78 Some details of what is known about this mysterious
disappearance are given in Chapter 1 above. The phrase ‘thick
darkness’ is from 1 Kings 8:12.
79 See for example Professor Richard Elliott Friedman, Who Wrote
the Bible?, Johnathan Cape, London, 1988, p. 156.
80 As in the case of Moses’s insubordinate sister Miriam. See
Numbers 12. This incident is discussed further in Chapter 13
,

below.
81 Exodus 12:40.

82 The date of the Exodus, which Moses led in his old age, is
generally put at between 1250 and 1230 bc (see, for example,
Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 343). For a
discussion of the dates of Tutankhamen’s short rule see

Christiane Desroches-Noblecourt, Tutankhamen: Life and Death

of a Pharaoh, Penguin, London, 1989, p. 105.
83 Christiane Desroches-Noblecourt, Tutankhamen, op. cit., pp. 1

and 20.
84 Exodus 25:11.
85 Christiane Desroches-Noblecourt, Tutenkhamen, op. cit., p. 13 1.

,

.

55 ^

References

See also Nicholas Reeves, The Complete Tutankhamun Thames &
Hudson, London, 1990, pp. 102 and 104. It is interesting to note
that the sarcophagus itself also bore images of these tutelary
deities in high relief - see page 105.
86 Exodus 25:18.
87 For a discussion see Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia of
Judaism, Jerusalem Publishing House, Jerusalem, 1989, pp.
157-8.

88 Christiane Desroches-Noblecourt, Tutankhamen op. cit., p. 185.
89 Ibid., p. 185. See also John Anthony West, Ancient Egypt, Harrap
Columbus, London, 1989, p. 268, and Jill Kamil, Luxor,
Longman, London and New York, 1989, p. 28.
90 Alan Moorehead, The Blue Nile, Penguin, London, 1984, p. 17.
91 I Chronicles 15:15, Jerusalem Bible translation. The King James
Authorized Version reads: ‘And the children of the Levites bare
,

the Ark of God upon their shoulders with the staves thereon, as

Moses commanded.’
92 See, for example, Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic -Jewish Elements
in Abyssinian (Monophysite) Christianity’, Journal of Semitic

Studies, vol. I, no. 3, 1956, p. 223, footnote 6. Ullendorff says

that tabot is ‘derived from the Jewish Pal. Aramaic tebuta (tebota)

which in turn is a derivation from the Hebrew tebah .’
93 E. A. Wallis Budge, The Queen of Sheba and her Only Son Menelik:
being the Book of the Glory of Kings (Kebra Nagast), Oxford
’

University Press, 1932, pp. 14-15.

94
95

Ibid., p. 14.

lam grateful to Dr Kitchen for his help and advice at various
stages of this project. I first came into contact with him after he

met and was interviewed on 12 June 1989 by Caroline Lasko (a
freelance researcher then working with me). He subsequentiy was
kind enough to be available for further meetings and to write to
me on various salient points. For his authoritative views on the
ancient Egyptian origins of many aspects of early Judaism the

reader is referred to his paper ‘Some Egyptian Background to the

Old Testament’, Tyndale House Bulletin, no. 5-6, Cambridge,
April i960. As regards the Ark of the Covenant and its
relationship to the arks from Tutankhamen’s tomb, see in
particular pp. 10-1 1

96 E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God in Ancient Egypt, Oxford
University Press, 1934, p. 40.

97 A. H. Sayce, Fresh Light from the Ancient Monuments, Religious
Tract Society, London, 1884, p. 67. See also p. 68.
98 Christiane Desroches-Noblecourt, Tutankhamen, op. cit., p. 186.
See also Shalom M. Paul and William G. Dever (eds), Biblical

,

References

557

Archaeology Keter Publishing House Jerusalem, 1973, part III, p.

99 252: ‘Some scholars have compared the Ark to the chests {the lower
part ofwhich was generally boat-shaped) which were brought out of the
temple by the Egyptian priests at festivals, and on which statues of
the gods were placed.’ Emphasis added.
Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Book of the Covenant’, op. cit., p.121.
100 J. A. West Ancient Egypt, op. cit., p. 236.
,

10 1 Ibid.
102 Ibid.

103 Lady Flavia Anderson, The Ancient Secret: Firefrom the Sun, RILKO
Books, London, 1987, pp. 1 13-14.
1
04 I made the following entry in my notebook: ‘The arks carried in the
Apet ceremonies - though later transformed into chests - initially
took the form of boats. It is therefore not difficult to see how the word
tebah came to be used in biblical Hebrew for the ark of Noah and for
Moses’s ark of bullrushes. That a different name {Aron) was
subsequently used for the Ark of the Covenant could simply be a
function of the fact that the Ark itself had disappeared from Jerusalem
by the time that the books of the Old Testament came to be officially
codified - and that the biblical scribes, setting down the oral history

of the Jewish people, had been confused or uncertain about some of
the key details of the religious tradition from which the lost relic had
hailed. If my theory is correct, of course, it was not “lost” at all, but
instead had been taken to Ethiopia- where its original name {Tap et or
Tabot) has continued to be used right up to the present day.’
I later discovered that the Scottish explorer

James Bruce had

considered similar issues in vol. I of his Travels. He passed through

Luxor (then known to Europeans as Thebes) on his way to Ethiopia
and speculated that the name ‘Thebes’ must have been derived from
‘Theba, which was the Hebrew name for the Ark when Noah was
ordered to build it - Thou shalt “make thee an Ark (Theba) of
gopher-wood”. The figure of the temples in Thebes do not seem to
be far removed from the idea given us of the Ark.’ Though he did not
proceed, as I had done, to link Tapet (the ancient Egyptian name for
Thebes) to Tabot, I was intrigued that he followed this particular
linguistic trail. It further convinced me that his principal aim in going
to Ethiopia had been to search for the Ark of the Covenant and not,
as he pretended, to discover the source of the Nile. See James Bruce,
Travels to Discover the Source ofthe Nile in the Years 1768, 176Q, 1770

,

1771 1772 and 1773, Edinburgh, 1790, vol. I. pp. 394-5.
,

105 Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, op. cit., p. 504.
106 Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 343.
107 Josephus, Jewish Antiquities, translated by H. StJ. Thackeray,

Heinemann, London, 1930, vol. IV, books LTV,p. 253.
108

Ibid., pp. 257-9.

,

References

55 «

%

109 Acts 7:22.
no Philo Judaeus, De VitaMosis translated by F. H. Colson,
Heinemann, London, 1935, vol. VI, pp. 287-9.
This is attested to at some length in both Philo and Josephus, op.
1 1 1
cit.
1 1 2

What we know about the life of Moses confirms that ‘he had
studied the various branches of Egyptian magic’, E. A. Wallis

Budge, From Fetish to God op. cit., p. 8.
1
13 ‘All the pharaohs were magicians as part of their office’, C. Jacq,
Egyptian Magic, Bolchazy-Carducci Publishers, Chicago, 1985, p.
,

12. And see in general pp. 9-13.
1

14 Acts 7:22.

Luke 24:19.
1 16 That knowledge of words of power is indeed referred to in the
phrase ‘mighty in words’ - rather, say, than oratory - becomes
clear when we remember that Moses later told Yahweh, ‘never in
1

15

my life have I been a man of eloquence.’ The deity replied that
the prophet should use his half-brother Aaron as his mouthpiece:

know that he is a good speaker.’ Exodus 4:10-17.
E. A. Wallis Budge, Egyptian Magic, Kegan Paul, Trench,

‘I

1 17

Triibner, London, 1901, p. 5.
1

18 Josephus, op. cit., footnote c, pp. 276-7. See also Jerusalem Bible,
op. cit., footnote 3a, p. 63.

19 Exodus 3:2.
120 Exodus 3:7-10.
1

121 Exodus 3:13.

122 J. G. Frazer, The Golden Bough: A Study in Magic and Religion,
Macmillan, London, 1987 edn, p. 261.
123 Exodus 3:14 and Exodus 3:6.

124 See Irving M. Zeitlin, Ancient Judaism, Polity Press, Cambridge,
1984, pp. 58-9. See also Handbook to the Bible, Lion Publishing,

London, 1988, p. 157. The meaning of the Hebrew verb ‘to be’
goes beyond ‘to exist’ and conveys the notion ‘to be actively
present’. For a fuller discussion see F. L. Cross and E. A.
Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church,

125

126
127
128

129
130

Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 1354. See also Geoffrey
Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, op. cit., pp. 289-90.
E.g. Exodus 4:20; Exodus 17:9.
Exodus 4:2.
Exodus 4:3-4.
E. A. Wallis Budge, Egyptian Magic, op. cit., p. 5, and From Fetish
to God, op. cit., pp. 1 19 and 129.
Exodus 7:1 1-1 2.
Exodus 7:20-2.

,

References

559

Exodus 8:1-7.
132 Exodus 8:16-19.
133 Exodus 8:21-32.
134 Exodus 9:1-7.
135 Exodus 9:8-1 1.
136 Exodus 10:1-20; Exodus 10:21-3.
137 Exodus 12:23-30.
138 Exodus 12:31-3.
139 Exodus 14:21-2.
140 Exodus 14:23.
141 Exodus 14:7-9.
142 Budge, Egyptian Magic, op. cit., p. 10.
143 Budge, From Fetish to God op. cit., p. 8.
13 1

,

144

Ibid., p. 43: ‘It is impossible to think that the highest order of the

priests did not possess esoteric knowledge which they guarded

with the greatest care.’

145 See, for example, Lucie Lamy, Egyptian Mysteries, Thames &

Hudson, London, 1981, p. 86.
146 Luciano Canfora, The Vanished Fibrary: A Wonder of the Ancient
World, Hutchinson, London, 1989, p. 21.
147 Herodotus, The History, David Green (trans.), University of
Chicago Press, Chicago and London, 1988, p. 132.
148 W. B. Emery Archaic Egypt, Penguin, London, 1961, p. 206.
149 See the paper ‘Mathematics and Astronomy’ in J. R. Harris (ed.),
The Fegacy of Egypt, Oxford University Press, 1971.
150 This may be deduced from measurement of a variety of ancient
,

Egyptian structures. Sir William Flinders Petrie, the nineteenthcentury archaeologist (who was highly sceptical in general of
theories suggesting advanced knowledge in ancient Egypt) was
satisfied that the proportions of the Great Pyramid at Giza (c.

2550 bc) ‘expressed the transcendental number/)/ with very
considerable precision’. See A. J. West, The Traveller's Key to
Ancient Egypt:

15 1

A Guide to the Sacred Places ofAncient Egypt, Harrap,

London, 1987, p. 90.
Reported in Mystic Places, Time-Life Books, Amsterdam, 1987, p.
65-

152 See R. El-Nadoury, ‘The Legacy of Pharaonic Egypt’, in General
History ofAfrica II,

UNESCO, Paris, 1981.

153 See the paper on ‘Medicine’ in J. R. Harris (ed.), The Legacy of
Egypt op. cit.

154 See Chapter 5 above.
Quoted in Robert Lawlor, Sacred Geometry: Philosophy and Practice,
1 55

Thames & Hudson, London, 1982.

,

References

560

156 See William Anderson, The Rise of the Gothic Hutchinson,

London, 1985, p. 65.
157 Dates fromj. A. West Ancient Egypt, op. cit., pp. 249-50.
158 Ibid., pp. 249-50.
,

159
160

Ibid., p.

161

J.

252.

Ibid., p. 424.

R. Harris, ‘Technology and Materials’, in The Legacy ofEgypt,

op. cit., p. 103.

162 J. A. West, Ancient Egypt, op. cit., p. 251.
163

Ibid., p. 109.

164 Quoted in ibid., p. 40.
measurements and weights. See also
165 Ibid., pp. 112-23, f° r
A. J. Spencer, The Great Pyramid, P. J. Publications, London, 1989.
166 A. Abu Bakr, ‘Pharaonic Egypt’, in the UNESCO General History
ofAfrica II, op. cit.
167 Mystic Places, op. cit., pp. 49-50.

168

Ibid., p. 62.

169

Ibid., p. 62. For a full and up-to-date presentation of the

pyramidologists’ point of view see Peter Lemesurier, The Great

Pyramid Decoded, Element Books, Dorset, UK, 1989.
170 Peter Lemesurier, The Great Pyramid Decoded, op. cit., p. 7.
17 1 Mystic Places, op. cit., p. 59, and Lemesurier, op. cit., p. 3. In fact,
as Lemesurier points out, the alignment is fractionally off true - by
'nearly five minutes of arc, or one -twelfth of a degree. But this
would be to ignore the astronomical evidence that the cause even
of this minute error is to be found in the gradual movement of the
earth’s own axis rather than in any inaccuracy on the part of the
building’s original surveyors.

W

est, Ancient Egypt, op. cit.,
172 See Mystic Places, op. cit., p. 47; J. A.
p. 123; and A. J. Spencer, The Great Pyramid, op. cit.
173 Herodotus, op. cit., 2. 125, p. 186.

W

est, Ancient Egypt, op. cit., p. 107.
174 Quoted inj. A.
175 Ibid., Introduction, p. xi. As well as the sheer magnitude of the
task involved in building the Great Pyramid, other factors also
contributed to my deepening suspicion that the ancient Egyptians
must have known something that modern civilization did not. In
the late nineteenth century, for example, Sir William Flinders
Petrie, certainly the most eminent archaeologist of his generation,
spent months at Giza carefully measuring the edifice - principally
with a view to demolishing some of the wilder speculations of the
pyramidologists. This he largely succeeded in doing (he claimed
subsequently that he had provided ‘the ugly little fact which killed
the beautiful theory’). However, even he was forced to admit on
several occasions that some of the achievements of the pyramid’s

.

References

561

builders were quite baffling. Commenting on the precision with

which the 1 1 5,000 ten-ton casing blocks were laid around the
core masonry, he wrote: ‘Merely to place such stones in exact
contact would be careful work, but to do so with cement in the
joint seems almost impossible; it is to be compared to the finest

opticians’ work on a scale of acres.’ Petrie’s remark is quoted in
J. A. West’s Ancient Egypt , op. cit., p. 90.

Chapter 13 Treasures of Darkness
Garth Fowden, The Egyptian Hermes: A Historical Approach to the
Late Pagan Mind, Cambridge University Press, 1987, pp. 22-3.
2 See New Larousse Encyclopaedia ofMythology, Hamlyn, London,
1

1989, p. 28.
3

See also E. A. Wallis Budge, Egyptian Magic, Kegan
Paul, Trench, Triibner, London, 1901, p. xi: ‘the world itself
came into existence through the utterance of a word by Thoth.’
Soon after I had learned this it occurred to me that the whole
concept was eerily analogous to the well known biblical passage
which stated: ‘In the beginning was the word, and the word was
with God, and the word was God. He was with God in the
beginning. Through him all things came to be, not one thing had
its being but through him’ (John 1:1-3). Intrigued by this
coincidence I looked further and discovered, to my considerable
Ibid., p. 27.

surprise, that the Judaeo-Christian Scriptures allowed a number

of other close parallels to be drawn between Thoth, the pagan

moon-god of the Egyptians, and Yahweh, the God of Moses. One
of the most striking of these concerned the Ten Commandments
given to Moses on Mount Sinai and supposedly inscribed on the
tablets of stone that were contained within the Ark of the

Covenant: ‘Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt
Thou shalt not take the
not make unto thee any graven image
Remember the sabbath day
name of the Lord thy God in vain
Thou
Honour thy father and thy mother
and keep it holy
.

.

.

shalt not kill

not steal

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Thou shalt
Thou shalt not commit adultery
Thou shalt not
Thou shalt not bear false witness
.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

covet thy neighbour’s wife.’ (Exodus 20:3-17).

had always thought that this exacting legal code was unique to
early Judaic culture. This assumption, however, was overturned
when I found the following remarkably similar formulae in
Chapter CXXV of the ancient Egyptian Book of the Dead - a
chapter which consisted of a series of negative confessions that the
soul of the deceased was obliged to make before Thoth in his
capacity as divine judge and scribe: ‘Not have I despised god
I

.

.

,

References

562

Not have I killed

.

.

.

Not have I fornicated

despoiled the things of the god

man

.

.

.

Not have I cursed god

(see E. A. Wallis Budge,

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Not have I

not have I defied the wife of a

Not have I borne false witness'

The Egyptian Book of the Dead: The

Papyrus ofAni British Museum Publications, London, 1895, pp.

195-204). Perhaps the most striking parallel of all, however,
occurred in a rubric to one part of the Book of the Dead which
stated: ‘This chapter was found on an alabaster brick, under the

feet of the Majesty of this venerable place, the God Thoth, and it

was written by the God himself.' I already knew, of course, that
the Ark of the Covenant had frequently been referred to in the
Bible as the ‘footstool of God' (e.g. 1 Chronicles 28:2) and that it
had contained the stone Tablets of the Law written by Yahweh’s
own linger. I could therefore only conclude that the match
between the thinking and behaviour of Yahweh and Thoth - and
also between the beliefs that people had held about the two deities
- was much too close to be entirely fortuitous. Neither, I
reasoned, was it possible that the biblical passages had influenced
the writers of the Book of the Dead since, of the two documents,
the latter was by far the most ancient (some of its contents, I knew,
went back as far as the fourth millennium bc; the most archaic
sections of the Bible, by contrast, were at least 2,000 years
younger).
4 'Garth Fowden, The Egyptian Hermes op. cit., p. 33.
,

See also E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God in
Ancient Egypt, Oxford University Press, 1934, pp. 12 1-2, and the
A err Larousse Encyclopaedia ofMythology op. cit., p. 27.
6 A ew Larousse Encyclopaedia ofMythology, op. cit., p. 27.
7 John .Anthony West, The Traveller's Key to Ancient Egypt: a Guide to
the Sacred Places ofAncient Egypt, Harrap Columbus, London,
5

Ibid., p. 23.

7

.

1987, pp. 74-5.
8 E. A. \\ allis Budge (trans.), The Egyptian Book of the Dead, op. cit.,
Introduction, p. cxviii.

9 E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God op. cit., p. 157. See also
M. \ Seton-Williams, Egyptian Legends and Stories Rubicon
,

.

,

Press, London, 1990, p. 16.

10 This story is to be found in its fullest form in Plutarch, De Iside et
Osiride. See M. V. Seton-Williams, op. cit., pp.

24-9. See also E.

A. \\ allis Budge, From Fetish to God, op. cit., pp. 177 ff.
11

W. B. Emery Archaic Egjpt, Penguin, London, 1987, p. 192.

12

E. A. \\ allis Budge (trans.), The Egyptian Book of the Dead, op. cit.,

,

Introduction, pp. xii and xiii.
13

\\

.

B. Emery\ Archaic Egypt, op. cit., p. 38. Emphasis added.

14 Ibid., p. 175-91.

,

References

563

15 Ibid., pp. 177 and 31.
16 Ibid., p. 26.

17 Instructions given to Sin on the day of creation by Marduk, chief
figure in the Mesopotamian pantheon. Quoted in the New
Larousse Encyclopaedia ofMythology, op. cit., p. 57.
18 Ibid.

19 E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God op. cit., p. 155
20 W. B. Emery, Archaic Egypt, op. cit., p. 31.

This is Emery’s view also. See ibid., p. 122-3.
22 Plato, Timaeus and Critias Penguin Classics, London, 1977, p.
21

,

39

-

23 Ibid., pp. 35-8 and 137-8.

24

Ibid., p. 38.

25 Ibid. See ‘Appendix on Atlantis’ by Sir Desmond Lee, p. 158.

26

Ibid., p. 158.

27 Ibid., p. 40.
28 See Edmond Sollberger, The Babylonian Fegend of the Flood,
British Museum Publications, London, 1962. See also The Epic of

Gilgamesh Penguin Classics, London, i960.
,

29 Peter Marshall, Journey Through the Maldives, Camerapix
Publishers International, London, 1991, p. 191.

30 See Encyclopaedia Britannica, 15th edn, 1991, Micropaedia, vol.
IV, pp. 441-2.
3 1 See Chapter CLXXV of the Book of the Dead where Thoth (in his
capacity as universal demiurge) resolves to send a flood to punish
sinful humanity: ‘They have fought fights, they have upheld
strifes, they have done evil, they have created hostilities, they have
made slaughter, they have caused trouble and oppression
[Therefore] I am going to blot out everything which I have made.
This earth shall enter into the watery abyss by means of a raging
flood, and will become even as it was in primeval time’ (from the
Theban Recension of the Book of the Dead quoted in E. A.
Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God, op. cit., p. 198). This
compares intriguingly with Chapter 6 of Genesis: ‘And God saw
that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every
imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and
And God said, The end of all flesh
it grieved him at his heart
.

.

.

,

.

is

.

.

come before me; for the earth is filled with violence

.

.

.

And

behold I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to
destroy all flesh wherein is the breath of life from under heaven;

and everything that is in the earth shall die’ (Genesis 6:5-17).
32 E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God, op. cit., pp. 197-8.
33 Good summaries of the Plutarch account are given in M. V.

564

References
Seton-Williams, Egyptian Legends and Stories, op. cit., pp. 24-9;

and in E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God, op. cit., pp. 178§3

-

34 See in particular E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God, op. cit.,
p. 182. The Plutarch story has the coffer floating across the

Mediterranean to ‘Byblos’ near modern Beirut. Budge dismisses
this as a mistranslation, pointing out that byblos was simply a name
for the papyrus plant.
35

Ibid., p. 180.

36 Josephus, Jewish Antiquities, translated by H. StJ. Thackeray,
Heinemann, London, 1930, vol. IV, books I-IV, p. 263.
37 Philo, Life ofMoses, translated by F. H. Colson, Heinemann,
London, 1935, vol. VI, p. 285.
38 E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God, op. cit., pp. 181-2.
39 Samuel Noah Kramer, The Sumerians: Their History, Culture and
Character, University of Chicago Press, 1963. See also John
Oates, Babylon, Thames & Hudson, London, 1979.
40 New Larousse Encyclopaedia ofMythology, op. cit., pp. 58-60.
41 Jonah 2:10; 3:2.
42 Genesis 6:19.
43 Genesis 6:14.
44 Genesis 9:1.
45 Luke 24:19.

46 John 3:5.
47 Mark 1:9-11.
48 See E. A. Wallis Budge, Egyptian Magic, Kegan Paul, Trench,
Trubner, London, 1901.
49 J. A. West, Ancient Egypt, op. cit., p. 8.
50 Thor Heyerdahl, The Ra Expeditions, Book Club Associates,
London, 1972, p. 17. Heyerdahl adds, without much further
comment, that the pyramid boat had clearly been built ‘to a
pattern created by shipbuilders from a people with a long, solid
tradition of sailing on the open sea’ (p. 16).
51 J. A. West Ancient Egypt, op. cit., pp. 132-3. See also A. J.
Spencer, The Great Pyramid, P. J. Publications, London, 1989.
52 Christiane Desroches-Noblecourt, Tutankhamen, Penguin,
London, 1989, pp. 89, 108, 113 and 283.
53 A. J. Spencer, The Great Pyramid, op. cit.
54 See, for example, W. B. Emery, Archaic Egypt, op. cit., p. 68.
,

55 General History ofAfrica, UNESCO, Paris, 1981, p. 84-107.
56 For further discussion see W. B. Emery, Archaic Egypt, op. cit.,
particularly Chapter 4; Lucy Lamy, Egyptian Mysteries, Thames

&

Hudson, London, 1981, p. 68; and UNESCO General History of
Africa, op. cit.

References

565

57 J. A. West, Ancient Egypt, op. cit., p. 158. The Greeks later
appropriated Imhotep, under the Hellenized name Asclepius, as
the founder of the science of medicine.

58 E. A. Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God op. cit., p. 161.
59 Garth Fowden, The Egyptian Hermes op. cit., p. 33.
,

,

60

Ibid., p. 23.

61

J.

62

Ibid., p. 340.

63

Ibid., p. 343.

A. West, Ancient Egypt, op. cit., p. 12.

64 The Jewish Encyclopaedia Funk & Wagnells, New York, 1925, vol.
,

II,

p. 497.

65 Collins English Dictionary Collins, London, 1982, p. 261;
emphasis added.
,

66 Malcolm Barber, The Trial of the Templars Cambridge University
Press, 1989, p. 62. See also pp. 61, 67, 69, 100, 101, 147,
,

163-4, 167, 175, 178, 182-3, 185-8, 210, 249.
67 G. Legman, The Guilt of the Templars, Basic Books, New York,
1966, p. 85.

68 See H. J. Schonfield, The Essene Odyssey Element Books, London,
,

1984, pp. 162-5. The code is known as the Atbash cipher. See in
particular p. 164.

69 Ibid., p. 164.
70 E. A. Wallis Budge, The Gods of the Egyptians Methuen, London,
,

1904, vol. I, p. 41 5.
71 Ibid., p.414.

72

Ibid., p.414.

73 David Stevenson, The Origins of Freemasonry Cambridge
University Press, 1990, p. 85. The Masons had venerated Thoth
,

in his later incarnation as Hermes, the Greek god of wisdom. As

74
75

76
77

Stevenson explains: ‘The Greeks had identified their god Hermes
with the Egyptian god Thoth, scribe to the gods, and himself a
god of wisdom’ (ibid., p. 83).
Ibid., p. 85 (with Thoth again in his incarnation as Hermes).
In De Revolutionibus. For a discussion see Timothy Ferris, Coming
ofAge in the Milky Way, Bodley Head, London, 1988, p. 65.
From The Harmonies of the World, quoted in Timothy Ferris,
Coming ofAge in the Milky Way, op. cit., p. 79.
The quotation is from Newton’s Principia, cited in Richard S.
Westfall, Never at Rest: a Biography of Isaac Newton, Cambridge
University Press, 1980, p. 435.

78

Ibid., p. 434.

79 John Harrison, The Library of Isaac Newton Cambridge University
,

Press, 1978.

References

566

80 Frank Manuel, The Religion of Isaac Newton, Oxford University
Press, 1974, p. 86.

81 Gale E. Christianson, In the Presence of the Creator: Isaac Newton

and His Times Collier Macmillan, London, 1984, p. 262.
,

82 Richard S. Westfall, Never at Rest, op. cit., p. 346.
83 Gale E. Christianson, op. cit., pp. 256-7.

84

Ibid., p. 257.

85 Richard S. Westfall, Never at Rest, op. cit., p. 250.
86 John Maynard Keynes, ‘Newton the Man’, in Newton Tercentenary
Celebrations, Cambridge University Press, 1947, pp. 27-9.

87 Gale E. Christianson, In the Presence of the Creator, op. cit., p. 362.
88 Ibid.
89 Ibid., p. 222
90 Yahuda Manuscript Collection, Jewish National and University
Library, Jerusalem,
16.2, pp. 48, 50 and 74.
91 Richard S. Westfall, Never at Rest, op. cit., p. 355.
92 Ibid., p. 356. See also Gale E. Christianson, In the Presence of the

MS

Creator, op. cit., p. 255.

93 See Gale E. Christianson, In the Presence of the Creator, p. 256.
94 Piyo Rattansi, ‘Newton and the Wisdom of the Ancients’, in John
Fauvel, Raymond Flood et al. (eds), Let Newton Be! :

A New

Perspective on his Life and Works, Oxford University Press, 1988,

pp. 188 and 195.
95 Quoted by Jan Golinski in ibid., pp. 159-60.
96 Gale E. Christianson, In the Presence of the Creator, op. cit., p. 222.

97 Isaiah 45:3.
98 J. A. West, Ancient Egypt, op. cit., p. 33.
99 Joshua 6:1 1-2 1.
100 1 Samuel 6:13-19.
101

1

Samuel 5.

102 Louis Ginzberg, The Legends of the Jews, The Jewish Publication
Society of America, Philadelphia, 191 1, vol. Ill, p. 194.
103 Exodus 3:8.

104 Exodus 16:35. See Chapter 12, note 28 above.
105 The shortest route was the ‘Way of the Sea’ (known to the
Egyptians as the ‘Way of Horus’ and to the Bible as the ‘Way of
the Land of the Philistines’). Slightly longer, but also quickly
traversed, was the more southerly ‘Way of Shur’. See Itzhaq

Beit-Arieh, ‘The Route Through Sinai’, Biblical Archaeology

Review, May/June 1988, p. 31.

106 Indeed, this is hinted at in the Bible. According to Exodus 13:
‘When Pharaoh had let the people go
God led them not
through the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was
near; for God said, Lest peradventure the people repent when they
.

.

.

1

References

567

see war, and they return to Egypt. But God led the people about,

through the way of the wilderness’ (Exodus 13:17-18).
107 E.g. Exodus 14:9-12; Exodus 14:31; Exodus 15:22-4; Exodus
15:25; Exodus 16:2-3; Exodus 16:4-36; Exodus 17:1-4; Exodus

17:6-7.

108 Exodus 17:6-7.

109 Exodus 15:25.

no Exodus 16:4-36.
in Numbers 12:1-2, and in general Numbers 12.
Numbers 12:10.
1 13 Numbers 12:10.
1 14 Numbers 16:2-3.
1 15 Numbers 16:4.
1 16 Numbers 16:5-7, 17. See also 16:39 (King James Authorized
1 12

Version translation) or 17:4 (Jerusalem Bible translation) for
confirmation that the censers were brazen/bronze. There can be no

doubt that the phrases ‘put fire therein and put incense in them before
the Lord" (King James Authorized Version) and ‘fill them with fire
and
put incense in them before Yahweh (‘Jerusalem Bible
translation) explicitly and unambiguously mean that they were to
bum incense before the Ark. See Chapter 12, note 1 1, above for a
.

’

.

.

full explanation of

why this is. See also note 121 below.

Numbers 16:7.
Numbers 16:18.
1 19 Numbers 16:19.
120 Numbers 16:20-1.
12 1 Numbers 16:22 and 35 (amalgam of King James Authorized
Version and Jerusalem Bible translations). Numbers 16:35 i n fact
1

17
1 18

states ‘there came out a fire from the Lord’ (King James

Authorized Version translation). The Jerusalem Bible translation
says ‘a fire came down from Yahweh’. See Chapter 12, note 1
above for a full explanation of why the work is implied. It is worth

adding with reference to this passage that the Israelites did not
accept that it had been ‘the Lord’ who had blasted the hapless
rebels. Instead they pinned the blame fairly and squarely on the

man who controlled the Ark. Numbers 16:41 states: ‘All the
congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses
.

.

.

saying You have brought death to the people’ (amalgam of

King James Authorized Version and Jerusalem Bible translations).

The latter is doubly logged as Numbers 17:6. (Emphasis added.)
122 Numbers 17:12-13 (King James Authorized Version translation).
In the Jerusalem Bible the same passage is logged under Numbers
17:27-8.

123 See Chapter 12 above for a full discussion.

,

568

,

,

References

124 Acts 7 123-4.
125 Exodus 2:12-15.
126 Exodus 7:7.
127 Exodus 2: 15-25
128 Ahmed Osman, Moses: Pharaoh of Egypt, Grafton Books, London,
1990, p. 17 1. Osman identified Moses with Pharaoh Akhenaten
who briefly introduced a version of monotheism into Egypt before
being overthrown.
129 A good summary account of Flinders Petrie’s expedition to
Serabit-el-Khadem is given in Werner Keller, The Bible as History

Bantam Books, New York, pp. 126-9. See also William M.
Flinders Petrie, Researches in Sinai Dutton, New York, 1906.
,

130 Itzhaq Beit-Arieh, ‘The Route Through Sinai’, op. cit., p. 33. See
also William F. Albright, The Proto -Sinaitic Inscriptions and their
Decipherment Harvard University Press, 1969; Frank Moore
Cross, ‘The Evolution of the Alphabet’, Eretz-Israel vol. 8, 1967,
p. 12; Joseph Naveh, Early History of the Alphabet, Hebrew
,

,

University, Jerusalem, 1982.

13 1

Itzhaq Beit-Arieh, ‘The Route Through Sinai’, op. cit., p. 33.

132 For further details see, for example, Aviram Perevolotsky and
Israel Finkelstein, ‘The Southern Sinai Route in Ecological
Perspective’, Biblical Archaeology Review, July/August 1985, pp. 27

and 33. See also Egypt: Insight Guide APA Publications,
Singapore, 1989, pp. 243-6
133 Again for further details see Perevolotsky and Finkelstein, ‘The
Southern Sinai Route in Ecological Perspective’, op. cit., p. 27.
134
135

Ibid., p. 33.
Ibid., pp.

27 and 33. See also Egypt: Insight Guide op. cit., pp.

243-6, and Itzhaq Beit-Arieh, ‘The Route Through Sinai’, op.
cit.

136 Itzhaq Beit-Arieh includes a helpful chart of other contenders for
the role of Mount Sinai in his paper ‘The Route Through Sinai’,
op. cit., p. 37. He concludes that the Exodus almost certainly did
follow the southern route through Sinai leading to Mount Sinai as
it is presently identified. The same conclusion is drawn in The
Times Atlas of the Bible, Guild Publishing, London, 1987, p. 56.
137 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, Penguin Classics, London,
1980, p. 232

138 See Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Book of the Covenant’, Hebrew
Union College Annual, vol. V, 1928; and ‘The Ark, the Ephod
and the Tent of Meeting’, Hebrew Union College Annual, vol.
XVII, 1942-3; both reprinted by KTAV Publishing House, New
York, 1968. See also Chapter 3 above.
139 Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient Israel,

References

569

Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1978; reprinted 1985 by Eisenbrauns,

Winona Lake, Indiana, USA, p. 246.
140 Exodus 19:3.
141 Exodus 19:12-13 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
142 Exodus 19:16, 18 (amalgam of Jerusalem Bible and King James
Authorized Version translations).
143 Exodus 24:12.

144 Exodus 24:15-18 (amalgam of Jerusalem Bible and King James
Authorized Version translations).
145 See Louis Ginzberg, The Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. Ill, pp.
118-19.

146 Exodus 31:18; 32:15-16.
147 Exodus 32:19. The well known golden calf incident begins at

Exodus 32:1.
148 Exodus 32:28.
149 Exodus 34:28.
150 Exodus 34:29.
15 1 Exodus 34:29 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
152 Exodus 33:7, Jerusalem Bible translation: ‘Moses used to take the
Tent and pitch it outside the camp. He called it The Tent of
Meeting.’

153 Exodus 33:11.
154 Louis Ginzberg, The Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 1 19.

155 Exodus 34:29-35.
156 Exodus 34:30.

157 Exodus 34:33.
158 Exodus 34:34-5.
159 See Moshe Levine, The Tabernacle: Its Structure and Utensils,
Soncino Press, Tel Aviv, 1969, p. 88.
160 See, for example, The Oxford Reference Dictionary, Guild
Publishing, London, 1988, p. 793, which gives the measure of a
span or hand-breadth as nine inches. See also The Oxford Library
of Words and Phrases, Guild Publishing, London, 1988, vol. Ill, p.

45 i161 Rabbi Shelomo Yitshaki was born at Troyes in ad 1040 and died
in the year 1105. He is generally referred to as Rashi (an acronym

based on his full title and name). See Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The
Encyclopedia ofJudaism, Jerusalem Publishing House, Jerusalem,
1989, p. 583.
162 Exodus 39:1-32.
163 See, for example, Exodus 28:43 and Leviticus 10:6.
164 Numbers 4:5-6 and 15: ‘When the camp is broken, Aaron and
his sons [Eleazar and Ithamar] are to come and take down the veil

of the screen. With it they must cover the Ark

.

.

.

On top of this

References

57®

they must put a covering of fine leather, and spread over the whole a
cloth all of violet. Then they are to fix the poles to the Ark

.

.

.

[Then] the sons of Kohath are to come and take up the burden, but
without touching any of the sacred things; otherwise they would die.’
165 Ibid.
166 Louis Ginzberg, The Legends oftheJews op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 228: ‘The
most distinguished among the Levites were the sons of Kohath,
,

whose charge during the march through the desert was the Holy Ark.
This was a dangerous trust, for out of the staves attached to it would
issue sparks that consumed Israel’s enemies, but now and then this
fire wrought havoc among the bearers of the Ark.’
167 See passage quoted in note 1 64 above which specifies that the ‘veil of
the screen’, a layer of leather and a layer of cloth were used to wrap
the Ark. When the T abernacle was pitched and at rest, the ‘veil of the
screen’ hung in the entrance to the Holy of Holies. It was made of
‘blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen of cunningwork’
(Exodus 26:3 1). Unusually for such an important accessory, it did not
contain any gold - and neither, of course, did the ‘covering of fine
leather’ or the ‘cloth of violet’. In other words before the Ark was
moved it was first thoroughly wrapped and insulated by several layers
of non-conductive materials.
1 68 The view that the Ark was dangerous to carry for some possibly
electrical reason is supported by the Jewish tradition quoted in note
1 66 above. The same tradition adds further credibility to this notion
when it states that the Kohathites, rather than behaving as though
they were honoured by being given the ob of carrying the Ark - as
one might have expected if it was indeed nothing more than a symbol
of their God - in fact tried to avoid the duty, ‘each one planning
cautiously to shift the carrying of the Ark upon another.’ Louis
Ginzberg, Legends oftheJews, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 228.
169 Leviticus 10:2. The full passage reads: ‘And there went out the fire
from the Lord and devoured them and they died there before the
Lord’ (Kingjames Authorized Version). The Jerusalem Bible
translation of the same verse reads: ‘Then from Yahweh’s presence a
flame leaped out and consumed them and they perished in the
presence ofYahweh.’ See Chapter 1 2, note 1 1 above for an
explanation of why the Ark is implied.
j

170 Leviticus 10:4-5 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
17 1

1

Samuel 5.

172 E.g. the slaying of Uzzah by what sounds like some kind of electrical
discharge. See 2 Samuel 6:3-7.

Chapter 14 The Glory is departed from Israel
1

See Chapter 5 above.

,

References
2

571

Mecca and Medina are the first two. For details as to the date of
construction of the Dome of the Rock see Dan Bahat, Carta
’s

Historical Atlas ofJerusalem Carta, Jerusalem, 1989, p. 44—9.

3

See Chapter 12 above. See also Zev Vilnay, Legends of
Jerusalem: The Sacred Land, vol. I, Jewish Publication Society of

America, Philadelphia, 1973, pp. 11-12.
4 See Chapter 5 above, and later parts of this chapter, for further
details.

For further details see Jerome Murphy-O’Connor, The Holy Land,
Oxford University Press, 1986, pp. 84-6.
6 See Chapter 5 above.
5

7 1 Chronicles 28:2.
8 For a good concise history of the successive stages of building and

destruction on the Temple Mount see Cartas Historical Atlas of
Jerusalem, op. cit. As regards archaeological confirmation that the

Dome of the Rock does indeed stand over the site of the original
Temple of Solomon, see Kathleen Kenyon, Jerusalem: Excavating
3,000 Years of History, Thames & Hudson, London, 1967, p. 55:
‘From the present structure back to Solomon there is no real
break. One can therefore be certain of the site of Solomon’s

Temple.’ See also Kathleen Kenyon, Digging up Jerusalem, Benn,

London, 1974, p. no.
9 Islam also accepts Jesus Christ as a prophet. Muhammad is
regarded as exceptional because he was the last of the prophets the last of the messengers sent by God to teach and enlighten

humankind and whose honour it therefore was to complete the
divine message. There can be no serious dispute that the God
worshipped by the Jews, Christians and Muslims is, in essence,
the same deity. The oneness of this God is accepted by all three
faiths although Muslims believe that Christians are confused by
such notions as the Trinity and the divinity of Christ. An Arabic
inscription within the Dome of the Rock reads as follows: ‘O you
People of the Book, overstep not bounds in your religion, and of
God speak only the truth. The Messiah, Jesus, son of Mary, is
only an aposde of God, and his word which he conveyed into
Mary, and a Spirit proceeding from him. Believe therefore in God
and his apostles, and say not Three. It will be better for you. God
is only one God. Far be it from his glory that he should have a
son.’

10 See Zev Vilnay, Legends ofJerusalem, op. cit., pp. 123 and 324,
footnote 136. See also Neil Asher Silberman, Digging for God and
Country: Exploration, Archaeology and the Secret Struggle for the Holy

Land ijqq-iqij, Knopf, New York, 1982, p. 186.
1 1

Quoted from ‘The Syriac Apocalypse of Baruch’ in H. F. D. Sparks

References

572

%

(ed.),

The Apocryphal Old Testament, Clarendon Press, Oxford,

1989, pp. 843-4.
12 Ibid.; see ‘Introduction to the Syriac Apocalypse of Baruch’,
particularly p. 837.

13

14
15

16
17
18

See Chapter 5 above.
See Chapter 12 above.
1 Kings 8:1, 6, 10-1 1, 27.
1 Kings 11:4-5.
1 Kings 4:30.
Each wing measured five cubits (about seven and a half feet). See
2 Chronicles 3:11 and 1 Kings 6:24. According to the Jerusalem
Bible translation, the cherubim were made of olive wood plated
with gold.

Kings 6:19 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
20 Twenty cubits, by twenty cubits, by twenty cubits. See 1 Kings
19

1

6:20.

21

2 Chronicles 3:8 states that 600 talents of fine gold were used to

overlay the walls, floor and ceiling of the Holy of Holies. An

ancient talent weighed approximately 75 pounds, therefore 600
talents would have weighed 45,000 pounds - more than twenty

tonnes. For further details, and academic support for the amounts

of gold specified in the Bible as having been used in King

Solomon’s Temple, see Professor Alan R. Millard, ‘Does the
Bible Exaggerate King Solomon’s Golden Wealth?’, Biblical
Archaeology Review, May/June 1989, pp. 21-34. See also 1 Kings
6:20, 22 and 30.
22 2 Chronicles 3:9.

Kings 7:13-14 (amalgam of King James Authorized Version
and Jerusalem Bible translations).
24 Chretien de Troyes Arthurian Romances (translated by D. D. R.
Owen), Dent, London, 1987, p. 375; emphasis added.
25 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival, Penguin Classics, London,
1980. See in particular pp. 62-7 and 70-1.
26 See Kenneth Mackenzie, The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia, Aquarian
Press, Wellingborough, 1987 (first published 1877), pp. 316-17.
See also Alexander Horne, King Solomon's Temple in the Masonic
Tradition, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough, 1988, pp. 262-8 and
272-9. See also John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood, Century,
London, 1990, pp. 217-18. Hiram of Tyre, the bronzeworker
and skilled craftsman, is of course not to be confused with King
Hiram of Tyre who supplied Solomon with cedarwood for the
construction of the Temple, and who also sent him a number of
23

1

,

skilled artisans to assist with the work.

27 John J. Robinson, Bom in Blood, op. cit., p. 219.

,

References

573

Kings 7:23, 26.
29 See Shalom M. Paul and William G. Dever (eds), Biblical
Archaeology Keter Publishing House, Jerusalem, 1973, part III, p.
28

1

257
30 Bruce Metzger, David Goldstein, John Ferguson (eds), Great
Events ofBible Times Guild Publishing, London, 1987, p. 89.
31 Shalom M. Paul and William G. Dever, Biblical Archaeology, op.
-

,

cit., p.

32
33

34
35

36
37

257.

Kings 7:38.
See Chapter 12 above.
See Chapter 11 above.
1 Kings 7:40, 45.
1 Kings 7:15, 21-2.
Kenneth Mackenzie, The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia op. cit., pp.
349-50. See also David Stevenson, The Origins ofFreemasonry,
1

,

Cambridge University Press, 1990, pp. 143-52.
38 Alexander Horne, King Solomon s Temple in Masonic Tradition
y

cit.,

p.

,

op.

219.

39 Ibid.
40 Joshua 15:48; Judges 10:1; Judges 10:2; Chronicles 24:24.
41 E.g. Deuteronomy 27:5: ‘And there shalt thou build an altar unto
the Lord thy God, an altar of stones: thou shalt not lift up any
iron tool upon them.’ See also Joshua 8:31.
42 Moses was said to have used the Shamir in the desert to engrave
writing on the precious stones worn in the breastplate of the High
Priest. See Louis Ginzberg, The Legend of the ferns, Jewish
Publication Society of America, Philadelphia, 1909, vol. I, p. 34,

and vol. IV, p. 166.
43

Ibid., vol.

44

Ibid., vol. IV, p. 166.

45

Ibid., vol. I, p. 34.

I,

p. 34.

On the vanishing of the Shamir see also

Herbert Danby (trans.), The Mishnah, Oxford University Press,
1989, p.305.
46 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. I, p. 34.
47 From Islamic traditions about the Shamir, reported in Alexander

Horne, King Solomon's Temple in the Masonic Tradition, op. cit., p.
165.

48 Jerusalem Bible, Eyre & Spottiswoode, London, 1968,
Chronological Table, p. 344.

49 1 Kings 1 4:25-6.
50 The only objects specifically mentioned are the ‘shields of gold
which Solomon had made’, 1 Kings 14:26.
51 For further details see Professor Kenneth A. Kitchen, ‘Shishak’s
Military Campaign in Israel Confirmed’, Biblical Archaeology

,

574

References
Review May/June 1989, pp. 32-3. See also Bruce Metzger, David
Goldstein, John Ferguson (eds), Great Events ofBible Times op.
,

cit.,pp. 94-5

•

52

Ibid., p. 95.

53

Ibid., p. 94. This view is also expressed with great authority by

Professor Menahem Haran ofJerusalem’s Hebrew University in his

book Temples and Temple Service in Ancient Israel, Clarendon Press,
Oxford, 1978, reprinted (with corrections) by Eisenbrauns, Winona

Lake, Indiana, 1 985, p. 286: ‘It may be concluded that the Egyptian

army bypassed Jerusalem in the north, proceeding from Aijalon to
Beth-horon and Gibeon and from there north-eastwards to
Zemaraim and down into the Jordan Valley at Succoth. Shishak’s
campaign seems to have been mainly directed against the Northern
Kingdom. Only one section of his army seems to have overrun the
Negeb as far as Arad, without advancing towards the Judean hills. It
is thus not impossible that the temple treasuries and those of the
king’s house with “all the shields of gold which Solomon had made”
were handed over to Shishak by Rehoboam himself. He thereby
succeeded in diverting the Egyptian army from his land. This would
be the meaning of his words “he took away” used with reference to
Shishak. The story in 1 Kgs 14:25-6 only mentions oneparticular
part of Shishak’s route, highlighting it as viewed fromjerusalem.’

54 Professor Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient
Israel, op. cit., p.284.

55 Ibid.,pp. 284-5. Examples in the Bible ofJudaean kings who
emptied the treasuries for their own purposes include Ahaz and

Hezekiah. See 2 Chronicles 28:24 and 2 Kings 18:15-16.

56 Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 344. The reign of
Jehoash (Joash) is given as 798-783 bc. 2 Kings 14:1 states that the
conflict between Jehoash and Amaziah took place in the second year
of the reign ofjehoash - hence the date 796 bc.
57 2 Kings 14:12-14. The Kingjames Authorized version states ‘in
the treasures of the king’s house’. However, the more accurate and
recent translations of the Jerusalem Bible and the New English Bible
state, respectively, ‘the treasury of the royal palace’ and ‘the
treasuries of the royal palace’. It is clear that the translation ‘treasury’

or ‘treasuries’ is the correct one here.

58 Professor Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient
Israel, op. cit., pp. 277 and 285, footnote 19.
5 9 According to the authoritative chronology provided in \he Jerusalem
Bible, op. cit. See Chronological Table, p. 346. See also translation
of the second book of Kings, pp. 423-4.
60 2 Kings 24:10-13 (amalgam of King James Authorized Version and
Jerusalem Bible translations).

References

575

61 Professor Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient
Israel, op. cit., p.

287. The King James Authorized Version of the

Bible wrongly translated the word hekal with the general term
‘temple’, thus causing much confusion to subsequent generations

of scholars who did not have access to the original Hebrew. The
hekal was a specific part of the Temple - the outer sanctum which

formed the ante-chamber to the Holy of Holies.
62 For details see Chapter 11 above.
63 See Professor Edward Ullendorff, ‘Hebraic-Jewish Elements in
Abyssinian (Monophysite) Christianity’, in Journal of Semitic
Studies vol. I, no. 3, 1956, p. 235.
,

64

235-6: ‘The outside ambulatory of the three concentric
parts of the Abyssinian church (which is either round, octagonal,
Ibid., pp.

or rectangular) is called k’ene mahlet

,

i.e.

the place where hymns

are sung and where the debtara or cantors stand. This outer part

corresponds to the haser of the Tabernacle or the ulam of

Solomon’s Temple. The next chamber is the k'eddest where
communion is administered to the people; and the innermost part
is the mak’das where the tabot rests and to which only priests have
access. In some parts of Abyssinia, especially the north, the

Reddest (the qodes of the Tabernacle of hekal of Solomon’s
’

Temple) is called enda taamer, “place of miracle”, and the
mak’das is named k’eddusa k’eddusam (the qodes haqqodasim of the

Tabernacle and the debir of the Temple). This division into three
chambers applies to all Abyssinian churches, even the smallest of
them.’

65 This, as I subsequently established, had not been quite the act of
senseless vandalism that the English version of the text implied:
the phrase ‘cut in pieces’ was a translation of the Hebrew way-eqasses, which did suggest cutting up but also connoted the

stripping of metal plates from overlaid objects. Such a nuance

made sense because the Bible stated unambiguously that the
‘golden furnishings’ that had stood in the hekal had included the
‘altar’ and the ‘table of the showbread’

- both of which had been

made of wood overlaid with gold. For a discussion see Professor

Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient Israel op.
,

287, footnote 23.
66 1 Kings 7:49-50 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
67 If this is not already patently obvious to the reader, then it is made
cit.,

p.

Kings 8:6 which
reads as follows: ‘The priests brought up the Ark of the Covenant
of Yahweh to its place, in the debir of the Temple, that is, in the
Holy of Holies, under the cherubs’ wings.’
68 As is demonstrated by their treatment of Kingjehoiachin (2
clear in the Jerusalem Bible’s translation of 1

576

69

References
Kings 24:11-12), their deportation of large numbers of the
inhabitants of Jerusalem (2 Kings 24:14-16), and their
despolation of the Temple of Yahweh (2 Kings 24:13).
Research notes provided to the author by David Keys,
Archaeology Correspondent of The Independent London.
2 Kings 24:17.
2 Kings 25:1.
2 Kings 25:1-3. For the dates of these events I have relied on
the Chronological Table in the Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., p. 346.
There is a small margin of error in the dates allocated. Some
archaeologists put the ending of the siege and final destruction of
the Temple at 586 bc - e.g. see Kathleen Kenyon, Jerusalem:
,

70
71

72

Excavating 3,000 Years ofHistory', op. cit., p. 55.

73 2 Kings 25:8. It is important to stress that the academics disagree
as to whether these events took place in 587 or 586 bc.

74 2 Kings 25:8-10, 13-16. A parallel inventory, which does not
contradict this one in any way, and which also makes no mention
of the Ark, may be found in Jeremiah 52:17-23.
75 The view that the gold and silver items taken by Nebuzaradan
consisted only of relatively minor utensils is given additional
weight by the text of the parallel list in Jeremiah 52:17-23 which,
in verse 19, states explicidy that commander of the guard ‘took
the bowls, the censers, the sprinkling bowls, the ash containers,
the lamp-stands, the goblets and the saucers: everything that was

made of gold and everything of silver’ (Jerusalem Bible
translation). See also Jeremiah 27:18-22 which refers to the

objects not taken by Nebuchadnezzar in 598 bc and prophesies
•

that they will be taken after the second conquest of the city: ‘But if

they be prophets, and if the word of the Lord be with them, let

them now make intercession to the Lord of Hosts, that the vessels
which are left in the house of the Lord, and in the house of the
king of Judah, and at Jerusalem, go not to Babylon. For thus saith
the Lord of hosts concerning the pillars, and concerning the Sea,
and concerning the bases, and concerning the residue of vessels
that remain in the city, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon
took not when he carried away captive Jeconiah
king of Judah
from Jerusalem to Babylon
Yea, thus saith the Lord of Hosts,
the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that remain in the house
of the Lord, and in the house of the king of Judah and of
Jerusalem; They shall be carried to Babylon, and there shall they
.

.

.

.

.

.

be until the day that I visit them, saith the Lord; then will I bring

them up, and restore them to this place.’
76 E.g., Kathleen Kenyon, Royal Cities of the Old Testament Barne &
Jenkins, London, 1971, p. 148: ‘Probably the Ark vanished in the
,

,

References

577

burning of the Temple, though there is no actual reference to it
subsequent to its deposit in the Holy of Holies in the time of
Solomon.’
77 2 Kings 24:15-16.
78 2 Kings 25:1 1, 21.
79 Psalm 78:1-6.
80 Jerusalem Bible op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 346.
8 1 Peter Calvocoressi, Who Who in the Bible Penguin, London,
's

,

1988, p. 45.

82

Ibid.

83 Ezra 1:7-11.
84 Jerusalem Bible op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 346.
,

85 Ibid. See also Ezra 3:8; 5:16.
86 The Jerusalem Bible Chronological Table, op. cit. gives a
completion date of 515 bc. The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism proposes
the slighdy earlier dates of 520-517 bc. See Geoffrey Wigoder
(ed.),

The Encyclopedia ofJudaism, Jerusalem Publishing House,

Jerusalem, 1989, p. 694.

87 Hebrew -English Edition of the Babylonian Talmud Soncino Press,
London, Jerusalem, New York, 1974, Tractate Yoma, 21b.
88 See also Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. VI, p.
442: ‘The following five things were in the First Temple only: the
heavenly fire, the holy oil of anointing, the Ark, the Holy Spirit,
and the Urim and Thummim.’ Biblical references to the Urim
and Thummim can be found in Exodus 28:30; Leviticus 8:8;
Ezra 2:63; and Nehemiah 7:65.
89 Zev Vilnay, Legends ofJerusalem, op. cit., vol. I, p. 123. See also
Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. VI, p. 378:
‘Solomon, at the erection of the Temple, provided a secret place
to be used later for “hiding” holy objects.’
90 Hebrew -English Edition of the Babylonian Talmud, op. cit., Tractate
,

Yoma, 53b.
91 Dates from the Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p.

345
92 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. IV, p. 282. See
also Hebrew -English Edition of the Babylonian Talmud, op. cit.,
Tractate Yoma, 52b. See also C. Roth and G. Wigoder (eds), The
New Standard Encyclopaedia ofJudaism. W. H. Allen, London,
-

1970, p.158.
93 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. Ill, p. 158.

94

Ibid.

95 Herbert Danby (trans.), The Mishnah, op. cit., p. 158. See also
Zev Vilnay, Legends ofJerusalem, op. cit., p. 122.
96 See entry on the Books of Maccabees in F. L. Cross and E. A.

,

578

,

,

References
Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church

Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 855.
97 Ibid. In its ‘Introduction to the Books of Maccabees’ the Jerusalem
Bible op. cit., concludes that Maccabees was probably written
around 63 bc.
98 2 Maccabees 2:1, 4-5.
99 Jerusalem Bible op. cit., p. 605, footnote 2a and ‘Introduction to
the Books of Maccabees’, p. 569.
100 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church , op. cit., p. 855.

101 Jeremiah was born around 650 bc. The exact date of his death is
not known; however it is thought to have occurred within a decade

of the destruction of Solomon’s Temple. See F. L. Cross and
E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian

Church op. cit., pp. 730-1. See also Peter Calvocoressi, Who's
Who in the Bible op. cit., pp. 101-2.
,

,

102 2 Maccabees 2:1, 4.
103 See Deuteronomy 34:1.

104 Mount Nebo is on the eastern side of the Dead Sea, in the
modern state of Jordan, overlooking Jerusalem and Jericho.
105 Because he foretold - and welcomed - the destruction of the
Temple by Nebuchadnezzar, whom he saw as God’s chosen
instrument for chastising Judah, ‘He was frequently in personal
danger from his own people, physically assaulted and for several
years in hiding’ (Peter Calvocoressi, Who's Who in the Bible, op.

See also F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The
Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church op. cit., p. 730: Jeremiah

cit., p. 1 01).

,

faced ‘the hostility of the official representatives of the Jewish
religion’.

106 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. IV, p. 320: ‘The
Holy Ark, the altar of incense, and the holy tent were carried by
an angel to the mount whence Moses before his death had viewed
the land divinely assigned to Israel. There Jeremiah found a
spacious cave in which he concealed these sacred utensils.’
107 For further details on the Wailing Wall and on the current
politico-religious status of the Temple Mount the reader is

referred to the appropriate entries in Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The
Encyclopedia ofJudaism, op. cit., pp. 696-7 and 727-9.

108 See Meir Ben-Dov, In the Shadow of the Temple: the Discovery of
Ancient Jerusalem, Harper & Row, New York, 1985, p. 24.

109

Ibid., p. 25.

no Ibid., pp. 19-20.
in See Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopedia ofJudaism, op. cit.,
p. 695

and 481-3.

,

References

1

579

12 Meir Ben-Dov, In the Shadow of the Temple, op. cit. See in
particular Chapter 2, ‘Remains from the Kingdom of Judah’. The
rest of this excellent book, from p. 57 forward, is devoted to the

finds relating to other periods.
1 13

Ibid., pp.

16-18. See also Neil Asher Silberman, Digging for God

and Country: Exploration Archaeology and the Secret Struggle for the
Holy Land, iygg-igiy, Knopf, New York, 1982, pp. 89-99.
1 14 Neil Asher Silberman, Digging for God and Country, op. cit., pp.
,

89-99.
1

15 Ibid., p. 93.

1

16 Ibid., pp. 94-7.

Meir Ben-Dov, In the Shadow of the Temple, op. cit., p. 18.
1 18 Kathleen Kenyon, Digging up Jerusalem, op. cit., p. 3 1.
1
19 See Neil Asher Silberman, Digging for God and Country, op. cit.,
1 17

pp. 180-8. In general I am indebted to this useful and informative
work for the account of the Parker expedition that follows.

120

Ibid.

Kathleen Kenyon, Digging up Jerusalem, op. cit., p. 30.
122 See ‘Tom Crotser has found the Ark of the Covenant - or has
he?’, Biblical Archaeology Review May/June 1983, pp. 66-7.
1 21

123

Ibid., pp. 66-7.

124
125
126

Ibid., p. 66.

127
128

Ibid., p. 68.

129
130

Ibid., p. 68.

13 1

Ibid., p. 69.

Ibid., p. 67.
Ibid., p. 68, quoting UPI reporter Darrell Day.

Ibid., p. 68.

Ibid., pp. 68-9.

132 Richard Elliott Friedman, Who Wrote the Bible?, Jonathan Cape,

London, 1988, p. 156.
133 Ibid.

Chapter 1 5 Hidden History
1

Richard Elliott Friedman, Who Wrote the Bible?, Jonathan Cape,

London, 1988, p. 156.
2 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, The Queen of Sheba and her Only Son
Menelik: being the Book of the Glory of Kings (Kebra Nagast),
Oxford University Press, 1932, pages 99 and 100. See Chapter 3,
’

n. 94 above.

Classical Library (Heinemann),
3 Josephus, Jewish Antiquities, Loeb

London, 1934, books V-VIII, p. 665.
4 1 Kings 10:2.

References

580

E. A. Wallis Budge,

5

»

A History ofEthiopia, Nubia and Abyssinia,

London, 1928, Preface.
6 See David L. Edwards, /I Key to the Old Testament Fount
Paperbacks, London, 1989, pp. 209-11, in particular p. 210.
7 Ibid. See also Richard Elliott Friedman, Who Wrote the Bible?, op.
,

cit.,

p. 146.

Kings 8:6-8 (emphasis added). New English Bible translation,
Oxford and Cambridge University Presses, 1970, p. 384.
9 See David L. Edwards, A Key to the Old Testament, op. cit., p. 210.
10 William Shakespeare, Hamlet, Act III, Scene 2, line 25.
1 1 Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Book of the Covenant’, in Hebrew Union
College Annual, vol. V, 1928, reprinted by KTAV Publishing
House, New York, 1968, p. 29, footnote 37.
12 1 Kings 8:9 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
8

1

Deuteronomy 10:5 (New English Bible translation). The

13

Jerusalem Bible translation states: ‘and there they stayed’; the King
James Authorized Version states: ‘and there they be’.
14 Julian Morgenstern, ‘The Book of the Covenant’, op. cit., p. 29,
footnote 37.
15 Ibid. Emphasis added.
16 Louis Ginzberg, Legends of the Jews, Jewish Publication Society of

America, Philadelphia, 1909, vol. IV, p. 282.
17 Hebrew -English Edition of the Babylonian Talmud, Soncino
Press, London, Jerusalem, New York, 1974, Tractate Yoma 53b.
18 John Oates, Babylon, Thames & Hudson, London, 1988, p. 128.
19 Ibid., pp. 126-9.

20 2 Chronicles 34:33 (Jerusalem Bible translation); 2 Chronicles
35:2-3 (King James Authorized Version translation).
.

21

2 Chronicles 35:19 (cf. 2 Chronicles 35:1-3).

22 This date is arrived at by simple mathematics, since it is known
that Josiah came to power in 640 bc (see Jerusalem Bible, Eyre

&

Spottiswoode, London, 1968, Chronological Table, p. 345), the
eighteenth year of his reign must therefore have been 622 bc.

23 Jeremiah began his prophetic ministry in 626 bc - see Geoffrey
Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, Jerusalem Publishing

House, Jerusalem, 1989, p. 380. I attribute the date of 626 bc to
the verses quoted because they are recognized by leading biblical
scholars as being amongst ‘Jeremiah’s earliest prophecies’. See
Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient Israel,
Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1978, reprinted in 1985 by
Eisenbrauns, Winona Lake, Indiana, p. 281.

24 Jeremiah 3:16-17 (Jerusalem Bible translation).
25 Jeremiah’s authorship of the book of Jeremiah is not in doubt although he probably dictated it to an amanuensis. See, inter alia,

References

581

Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopaedia ofJudaism, op. cit., pp.

380-1 Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Introduction to the book of
Jeremiah, p. 1067; F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The
Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church, Oxford University Press,
\

1988, pp. 730-1.

26

Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient Israel, op.
cit.,

p. 281.

27 See Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, pp. 344-5. The
fifteen kings between Solomon and Josiah were Rehoboam,
Abijah, Asa, Jehosophat, Jehoram, Ahaziah, Athaliah, Joash,
Amaziah, Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, Manasseh and Amon.
28 The Holy Bible King James Version (Electronic First Edition, Kj2i),
,

Franklin Computer Corporation, New Jersey, 1989. Throughout

my research I made exhaustive use of this marvellous investigative
instrument.

29 See Numbers 12:10 and discussion in Chapter 13 above.
30 The occurrences were: Exodus 25:22, Numbers 7:89; 1 Samuel
4:4; 2 Samuel 6:2; and 1 Chronicles 13:6.
31 2 Kings 7:3.
32 Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 345.
33 2 Chronicles 26:16.
34 2 Chronicles 26:19.
35 See Leviticus 10:1-2.
36 See Chapters 12 and 13 above for a fuller discussion.
37 2 Chronicles 26:21-3.
38 Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopedia ofJudaism, op. cit., p.
575: ‘the precise dating of individual psalms is impossible.’
39 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, op. cit., p. 1139. See also Geoffrey Wigoder
(ed.), The Encyclopedia ofJudaism, op. cit., pp. 574-6; and Stephen
Bigger (ed.), Creating the Old Testament: The Emergence of the

Hebrew Bible, Blackwell, Oxford, 1989, pp. 254-8.
40 Ezekiel 10:2; Ezekiel 10:6; Ezekiel; 10:7.
41 For the dating of Ezekiel see ‘The Book of the Prophet Ezekiel’,
The Cambridge Bible Commentary, Cambridge University Press,
1974, Historical Table, p. xi.
42 Ezekiel 8:1-3: ‘the spirit lifted me up between the earth and the
heaven, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem.’

43 Ezekiel 10:20-2, especially 21.

44 Ezekiel 10:1, 15, 20.
45 Ezekiel 10:19, 5
46 Isaiah 37:16; 2 Kings 19:15.
-

47 Isaiah 37:14-16.
48 2 Kings 19:14-15.

References

582

*

49 Biblical scholars are unanimous that chapters 1-39 of the book of
Isaiah, including this chapter of course, were written by Isaiah
himself. See Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopedia ofJudaism,
op. cit., p. 369. See also Jerusalem Bible op. cit., ‘Introduction to
Isaiah’, p. 970. See also Peter Calvocoressi, Who's Who in the
Bible Penguin, London, 1988, pp. 87-8. Some of the later
chapters in Isaiah, from 40 onwards, were certainly written later.
The antiquity of chapter 37, however, the one in which the
,

,

reference to ‘between the cherubims’ crops up, is not in doubt.

Moreover since the chapter refers to a known historical event Sennacherib’s invasion - it can be dated fairly precisely to 701 bc
(s
Jerusalem Bible, Chronological Table, p. 345; and F. L. Cross
and E. A. Livingstone (eds), Oxford Dictionary of the Christian
Church op. cit., p. 715.
,

50 Set Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., ‘Introduction to the Book of Isaiah’, p.
970. See also F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford
Dictionary of the Christian Church, op. cit., p. 715.

51 Isaiah 6:1-3, and Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., p. 970.
52 Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 345, for dates.

53 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church, op. cit., p. 715. See also Handbook to the
Bible, Lion Publishing, London,

1988, p. 376. See also the
Encyclopedia ofJudaism, op. cit., p. 369. ‘Modern scholars maintain
that the book of Isaiah is a composite work written by more than

one prophet, and that only chapters 1-39 are the words of Isaiah.’
The verse quoted above falls safely within this range, in chapter 37
of Isaiah.

54 Isaiah 37:6-7. See also Handbook to the Bible, op. cit., p. 376; The
Encyclopedia ofJudaism, op. cit., p. 369.

55 Isaiah 37:14.
56 Isaiah 37: 17-20.
57 Isaiah 37:33, 35.
58 Isaiah 37:36-7.
59 See, for example, Paul Johnson,/! History of the Jews, Weidenfeld

& Nicolson, London, 1988, p. 73.
60

Ibid.

61 See Chapters 12 and 13 above.

62 Isaiah 37:14. ‘The house of the Lord’ is of course a synonym for
the Jerusalem Temple (compare Jerusalem Bible translation of the

same verse).
63 Isaiah 37:14.

64

1

Kings 3:15.

65 2 Samuel 6:5.
66 Deuteronomy 10:8.

,

,

,

,

References

583

67 Dates from Jerusalem Bible op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 345.
68 2 Kings 21: 2-7.
69 Jerusalem Bible op. cit., p. 419. See also Irving M. Zeitlin Ancient
Judaism, Polity Press, Cambridge, 1986, p. 173.
70 1 Kings 6:19 (Jerusalem Bible translation). With specific
reference to the Ark, Solomon had asked: ‘But will God indeed
dwell on the earth? behold, the heaven and heaven of heavens
cannot contain thee: how much less this house that I have
builded? Yet have thou respect unto the prayer of thy servant, and
to his supplication, O Lord my God, to hearken unto the cry and
to the prayer, which thy servant prayeth before thee today: that
thine eyes may be open towards this house night and day, even
toward the place of which thou hast said, “My name shall be there”.’ 1
Kings 8:27-9. See also 2 Samuel 6:2: ‘the Ark of God, whose
name is called by the name of the Lord of Hosts that dwelleth
between the cherubims.’ (Emphasis added.)
,

71 E.g. see 1 Chronicles 28:2.
72 2 Kings 21:16 (Jerusalem Bible translation).

73 2 Kings 21:20-1, 23-4.

74 2 Kings 22:1.
75 2 Chronicles 34:3.
76 2 Chronicles 34:3.

77 2 Kings 23:6 (amalgam of King James Authorized Version and
Jerusalem Bible translations).
78 2 Chronicles 34:7-8.
79 2 Kings 22: 6.
80 Professor Menahem Haran, Temples and Temple Service in Ancient
Israel, op. cit., pp. 277, 278, 288, 281.

Chapter 16 Door of the Southern Countries
1

Jill Kamil,

P- 35

Upper Egypt, Longman, London and New York, 1989,

-

2

Ibid., p. 36.

3

Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine: the Life of an Ancient
Jewish Military Colony University of California Press, Berkeley,

Los Angeles, 1968, p. no. ‘The length of the Temple was at
least sixty cubits.

A width of approximately twenty cubits may be

inferred from the presence of two buildings lying northeast of the

Temple.’ An ancient cubit measured eighteen inches - see Dr J.
H. Hertz (ed.), The Pentateuch and the Haftorahs, Soncino Press,

London, 1978, p. 327. The Jerusalem Bible footnote (b) p. 887,
concurs {Jerusalem Bible, Eyre & Spottiswoode, London, 1968).
4 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine, op. cit., p. no.

,

References

584

Kings 6:2: ‘the length thereof was threescore cubits, and the
breadth thereof twenty cubits.’
6 Emil G. Kraeling (ed.), The Brooklyn Museum Aramaic Papyri: New
Documents of the fifth century bc from the Jewish Colony at
Elephantine Published for the Brooklyn Museum by the Yale
University Press, New Haven and London, 1953, p. 101.
7 1 Kings 6:9.
8 Bezalel Porten Archives from Elephantine op. cit., p. 133; Emil G.
Kraeling, The Brooklyn Museum Aramaic Papyri, op. cit., p. 100.
9 Bezaleel Porten, Archives from Elephantine op. cit., pp. 13 and
5

1

,

,

,

133
10

-

Ibid., pp. 109, 152. See also Emil G. Kraeling,

The Brooklyn

Museum Aramaic Papyri, op. cit., p. 85.
11 E.g. Numbers 10:33; 35-6.
12

I.e.

after the promulgation of the Deuteronomistic code during

the reign ofjosiah - see Emil G. Kraeling, The Brooklyn Aramic
Papyri, op. cit., p. 85.

13 Ibid., p. 85.

14

Ibid., p. 85.

15

1

Samuel 4:4.

16 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine, op. cit., p. 299.
17 See Chapter 15 above.
18 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine, op. cit., pp. 12 1-2.

19 Ibid., p. 1 15.
20 Ibid., pp. 115-16.
21

1

Chronicles 28:2.

22 Emil G. Kraeling, The Brooklyn Museum Aramaic Papyri, op. cit.,
p. 24.

23 See Chapter 14 above.

24 In 609 bc. See 2 Kings 23:29-30. See also Bruce Metzger,
David Goldstein, John Ferguson (eds), Great Events of Bible Times,
Guild Publishing, London, 1989, p. 105. See also Jerusalem Bible,
op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 345.

25 ‘The occasionally canvassed origin of the Falashas from the
Jewish garrison of Elephantine or the conjecture that Jewish
influences in Abyssinia had penetrated by way of Egypt are devoid

of any reliable historical basis’, Edward Ullendorff, Ethiopia and
the Bible, published for the British Academy by the Oxford

University Press, 1988, p. 117.

26 In the 1 93 os, for example, Ignazio Guidi, an Italian scholar, had
canvassed exactly this possibility in his Storia della letteratura
etiopica (Rome, 1932, p. 95). And later, in i960, a former
President of Israel had argued that the solution to the puzzle of
Falasha origins must lie in Elephantine (Y. Ben-Zvi, Erets Israel,

References

585

Jerusalem, i960, vol. VI, p. 146). The strongest and most
persuasive case, however, had been put forward much more
recently by David Kessler, Chairman of the Falasha Welfare

Association of London and the author of an excellent book

entided The Falas has: the Forgotten Jews ofEthiopia (Schocken,

New York, 1985). See in particular pp. 41-7.
27 This point is particularly cogently argued by David Kessler in The
Falas has, op. cit.

28 See Chapter 6 above.
29 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine op. cit., p. 201.
30 See Chapter 6 above.
,

31 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine op. cit., pp. 109 and
154-5. Emil G. Kraeling (ed.), The Brooklyn Museum Aramaic
,

Papyri op. cit., p. 91.
,

32 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine op. cit., p. 155.
33 See Chapter 6 above.
34 1 Kings 8:54.
35 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine op. cit., p. 19.
,

,

36

Ibid., p. 20.

37 Emil G. Kraeling (ed.), The Brooklyn Museum Aramiac Papyri, op.
cit., p. 102-3.
38 See Chapter 9 above.
39 James Bruce reports his discovery of Meroe in his Travels to
Discover the Source of the Nile in the Years 1768, 176 9, 1770, 1771, 1772

and 1773, Edinburgh, 1790, vol. IV, pp. 538-9. For independent
confirmation that the Scottish explorer was indeed the discoverer
of Meroe see William Y. Adams, Nubia: Corridor to Africa, Allen
Lane, Princeton University Press, 1984, p. 295.

40 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine, op. cit., p. 45.
41 See Professor Edward Ullendorff, The Ethiopians: An Introduction
to Country and People, Oxford University Press, 1973, pp. 1-2.
42 For example in 529 bc. See Bezalel Porten, Archives from
Elephantine, op. cit., p. 15.

43 Herodotus, The History, translated by David Green, the University
of Chicago Press, Chicago and London, 1988, pp. 142-3; emphasis
added.

44 Herodotus was referring to Psammetichus II. Dates from John
Baines and Jaromir N[z\ek, Atlas ofAncient Egypt, Equinox Books,
Oxford, 1990, p. 37.

45 Bezalel Porten, Archives from Elephantine, op. cit., p. 8, citing ‘the
letter of Aristeas’.
46 That tireless and prolific scholar of ancient Egypt and Ethiopia,
Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, made his own analysis of the report of

Herodotus and likewise concluded that the ‘land of the Deserters’

586

References
‘must have been situated in some part of western Abyssinia’. See
Sir E. A. Wallis Budge,

A History of Ethiopia, Nubia and Abyssinia,

London, 1928, p. 62.
47 Edward Ullendorff, Ethiopia and the Bible, op. cit., p. 5.
48 Numbers 12:1 (King James Authorized Version translation). The
Jerusalem Bible refers to Moses’s Ethiopian wife as a ‘Cushite
woman’. So, too, does the New English Bible.
49 See, for example, Josephus, Jewish Antiquities (translated by H. St
J. Thackeray), Loeb Classical Library (Heinemann), London,
1978, vol. IV (books I-IV), pp. 269-75. See also Louis Ginzberg,
Legends of the Jews, Jewish Publication Society of America,
Philadelphia, 1909, vol. II, pp. 286-9, v °l. V, pp. 407-10. For a
discussion see also Tessa Rajak. ‘Moses in Ethiopia: Legend and
Literature’, Journal ofJewish Studies, Oxford Centre for
Postgraduate Hebrew Studies, vol. 29, no.2, Autumn 1978.

50 Genesis 2:13 (King James Authorized Version translation).
51 See Part III above.
52 See Major R. E. Cheesman, Lake Tana and the Blue Nile: An
Abyssinian Quest, Cass, London, 1936, pp. 71 and 75. For a
discussion see also Professor Edward Ullendorff, Ethiopia and the
Bible, op. cit., p. 2. Ullendorff states of the Ethiopian traditions

regarding the Blue Nile/ Gihon: ‘There is no valid reason to

doubt the essential accuracy of this identification.’
53 Joq D. Levenson, Sinai and Zion. An Entry into the Jewish Bible,

Harper & Row, San Francisco, 1987, p. 19.
54 Psalm 68:1: ‘Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them
also that hate him flee before him.’ This is a virtual mirror-image
of the ancient passage in Numbers 10:35 which states: ‘And it
came to pass, when the Ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up
Lord, and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that hate
thee flee before thee.’

55 Psalm 68:31.
56 See Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., ‘Introduction to the Minor Prophets’,
p. 1256.

57 Ibid.
58 Isaiah 18:1-2.
59 See Geoffrey Wigoder (ed.), The Encyclopedia ofJudaism,
Jerusalem Publishing House, Jerusalem, 1989: ‘modern scholars
maintain that the Book of Isaiah is a composite work written by
more than one prophet, and that only chapters 1-39 are the words
of Isaiah.’ The verses quoted, from chapter 18 of Isaiah, fall
comfortably within this range.
60 See Chapter 15 above.
61 Jerusalem Bible, op. cit., Chronological Table, p. 345, for kings’

,

References

587

dates. For the dating of Isaiah’s lifetime see F. L. Cross and E. A.

Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church

Oxford University Press, 1988, p. 715.
62 F. L. Cross and E. A. Livingstone (eds), The Oxford Dictionary of
the Christian Church op. cit., p. 715. See also Louis Ginzberg,
Legends of the Jews, op. cit., vol. IV, pp. 278-9 and vol. VI, pp. 371
and 396.
63 See Chapter 9 above.
64 Genesis 21:33.
65 See Frederick C. Gamst, The Qemant: A Pagan Hebraic Peasantry of
Ethiopia Holt, Reinhart & Winston, New York, 1969, pp. 5-6.
66 See, for example, A. H. M. Jones and Elizabeth Monroe,^
History ofEthiopia, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1966, pp. 7-8.
67 See Donald N. Levine, Greater Ethiopia: The Evolution of a Multiethnic Society, University of Chicago Press, Chicago and London,
1974, PP- 34 and 37- The Agaw, Falasha and Qemant all belong
to the ‘Central Cushitic’ language family and ethnic group. See
also Frederick C. Gamst, The Qemant, op. cit., p. 1: ‘The Qemant,
an ethnic group with an estimated population of 20,000 to
25,000, are a remnant of the Cushitic-speaking Agaw peoples,
the original inhabitants of northern and central Ethiopia.’ The
Agaw language has today all but died out amongst the Falashas,
although some elders in remote communities still speak it. See
,

,

Wolf Leslau, Falasha Anthology, Yale University Press, New Haven
and London, 1979, pp. xx-xxi. In general see also Edward
Ullendorff, The Ethiopians, op. cit., pp 37-8.

68 Balthazar Tellez, The Travels of the Jesuits in Ethiopia, quoted in
Sydney Mendelssohn, The Jews ofAfrica, London, 1920, p. 5.
69 Jacqueline Pirenne, ‘Des Grecs a l’aurore de la culture
monumentale Sabeenne’, in T. Fahd (ed.), L’arabe preislamique et
son environment historique et culturel (Actes de colloque de
Strasbourg, 24-27 juin 1987), published by the Universite des
sciences humaines de Strasbourg, 1989.
262.

70

Ibid., p.

71

R. Schneider, ‘Documents epigraphiques de Y¥,xh\oy\C Annales
,

dEthiopie, vol. X, 1976, pp. 88-9.

72

Ibid., pp. 88-9.

73 Jacqueline Pirenne, ‘Des Grecs a l’aurore de la culture
monumentale Sabeenne’, op. cit., pp. 264-5.
74 Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, translated with an introduction

by Brian Stone, Penguin Classics, London, 1974, p. 100.
75

Ibid., p. 100.

76

Ibid., p. 103.

References

5 88

*

Chapter 17 Supping with Devils
1

Graham Hancock, Richard Pankhurst, Duncan Willetts, Under
Ethiopian Skies Editions HL, London and Nairobi, 1983
,

(reprinted 1987 and 1989).
2

Graham Hancock, Ethiopia: the Challenge ofHunger Gollancz,
London, 1985, p. no.
,

Chapter 18 A Treasure Hard to Attain
1

Theodore Bent, The Sacred City of the Ethiopians: Travel and
Research in Abyssinia in i8gj Longmans, Green, London, New
York and Bombay, 1896, p. 196.

J.

,

See Chapter 1 above.
3 See Chapter 5 above.
4 See Chapter 5 above. See also B. T. Evetts (trans. and ed.), Abu
Salih, Churches and Monasteries of Egypt and some Neighbouring
2

Countries, Oxford, 1895, p. 288.

See Chapter 5 above.
6 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival Penguin Classics, London,
1980. See for example pp. 393 and 397.
7 Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parzival op. cit., p. 232.
5

,

,

1

Index

Aaron, High Priest 274-5, 2 77> 2 99>

34 2 -3

Amram 296
Amzey Bey Pasha 392, 393

Abihu, son of Aaron 274, 354

Anayer 244, 456

Abirus (Hebrews) 461

Anbober village 250-2, 425-6

Abraham 456
Abu see Elephantine
Abu Salih 127-9, 158-9, 503
Addis Ababa 32-3, 192

Angels, and Qemant sect 245

Adolf, Helen 61-4, 78, 125

Apet, festival 289-92, 294, 436

comparison with Timkat 290-1
Arabia and Yemen, alleged source of
Ethiopian Jews 13 1-3, 460-2

Aedesius 12-13

Area foederis 54, 60

El-Affendi, Dr Abdel Wahab 471

ARCHA CEDERIS, Chartres 49, 54-

Agaw tribe 104, 456-7
Ahaz, King 416, 454

Ahmed Ibn Ibrahim el Ghazi see
‘Gragn’

5

Archaeology, Temple Mount site 94-5,

387-97
Archaeology see also Axum

Aksum see Axum

Architecture see Building

Al-Aqsa mosque, Jerusalem 93, 94,

Ark, Noah’s 32

100, 360-1

Albrecht von Scharfenberg 80

Ark of the Covenant
general

Alchemy, and Newton 335, 337-8

dimensions 127-8

Alemu, Solomon, kaher 251-2, 426,

and Egyptian arks 290-2

Alexander, King of Macedonia 1 10

and the Grail 64-73, 367, 515
handling problems 353-4

Alexander III, Pope 82, 85, 105-6,

materials from which made 353

446

107, hi

nature 6-7, 273-4

Alexandrian library 303

power 6, 22, 195, 274-5, 276,

Alfonso V, King of Portugal 1 70

285-7, 365
summary of its progress 514-15

Alvarez, Fr Francisco 21, 36-7, 84,

117-18, 153, 171, 172

Amaziah, King of Judah 373

Ambrose, Saint 60

Amhara culture 34-5, 457
Amon, King 418, 420-1
Amos, quoted 450-1

and the author 49
enquiries at Daga Stephanos
206-9
enquiries at Debra Zion 226,

227-32
enquiries at Tana Kirkos 311-16

5

1

590

Index

*

and Jerusalem 4-5, 365-6

235. 252

site 361

at Temple

Ethiopia 213-14, 219, 221,

Mount 95-6, 364-5,

418
loss from the Temple 371-84,

400-30

at St Mary’s Church 8-9, 15,

21-2, 427-8
at Elephantine temple 439-42

during Zagwe rulers 157

Jewish fear of discovery 388

at Lake Zwai

possible removal by Manasseh

at Tana Kirkos 212-14,

419-20, 423
alleged discovery 394

and the Jews
Biblical references 404-12

use in war 195-6, 417-18

sought byjosaih 421-2

and Moses 4, 273-4, 276-7, 292,
294> 35i-3
as Mosaic instrument 339-40,

342-4, 347-8, 350-3

Moses and after, travels 275-9
tabernacle at Shiloh 279

158

402, 427, 428, 445-6

whereabouts, now 5-6, 267-8
keepers 5, 498-9, 511-13

removal threatened by Ethiopian

government 499-500
Artapanus, philosopher 331

Ashdod, Ark at 281
Asherah, pagan deity 419-20, 421, 422

Asmara 9
Assyrians, and Jerusalem 416-17

Aswan 252, 429
temple see Elephantine

captured by Philistines 280

Atbara, river 242, 449, 482

as Ashdod 281

Athanasius, Patriarch 13

at Gath 281

Atlantis 319-22

at Ekron 281-2

Atlit fortress 99-100

at Bethshamesh 282, 340

Avignon 154

abandoned by Philistines 282-3
back in Israelite hands 283-4
searches for, and interest in

218, 223,

Ethiopian mission to 1 60-2

Axum 43, 193
archaeology 13, 15-19, 500-5

archaeological search 1909 291

author’s first visit 1 1— 1

Bruce 178, 180-1, 183

author’s wish to revisit 236-7, 238,

carving at Chartres 49-5

364-5, 462-3, 470

Dimotheos 122-3

author’s later visit 496-515

discovery alleged in Jerusalem 394

history 11-14, 27, 103, 152

discovery alleged at Mount Pisgah

home of the Ark 8-9, 15, 21-2, 121,

395-7

427-8

Portuguese interest 17 1, 174

lioness carving 502

safekeeping during Islamic war

see also St Mary of Zion

175

and Templars 157-8, 159, 162-3,
164, 389

Aykel, visit to 242-7, 248

Azariah, High Priest 413
Azarius, son of Zadok 4-5

substitution for, at Timkat 1991

497-8, 501, 512-13

whereabouts, after loss at
Jerusalem, 371-84
loss, 380-1
Ethiopian tradition 3-4, 13, 25,
121, 126, 149-50, 194-5. 398
itinerary from Jerusalem to

Baal, worship of 419

Babson College library 336
Babylonians, invaders of Jerusalem 7,
95. 373-8

beaten by Cyrus 379
destruction of the Temple 95, 361,

363

Index
not holders of the Ark 371-8
Balcha, interpreter 3 1-4

Baldwin I, King of Jerusalem 93

Bamoth (high places) 248
Bannockburn, battle 1 65-6
Baphomet, worshipped by Templars

333-4
Barkai, Dr Gabbu 389

Barre, Mohamed Siyad, President of

Somalia 469
Baruch, Book of, 95, 363-4, 381

I

73

591

- 4, 176-87, 191, 21 1, 234,

238

on the Nile 201
and Meroe 446
Bruce, Robert the 165-6

Budge, Sir Ernest Alfred Wallis 44,
131,292, 297,303,318, 402
see also Kebra Nagast
Building

Egyptian mysteries transmitted 3067

Bayih, Berhanu 468

and St Bernard of Clairvaux 10 1-2

Beasts, referred to by Prester John

see also Chartres Cathedral

109-10
Beckwith, Carol, photographer 44

Cairo Museum 287-8

‘Belacane’, Queen 75-7

Cambyses, King of Persia 445

Ben-Dov, Meir 387, 389, 390
Benedictions, from the Grail 69
Benjamin of Tudela 145-6
Bent, J. Theodore 502
Berhanu, Yohannes 223-33

Canaan 277, 341

Bernard of Clairvaux, Saint 48, 58-9,
60, 92, 97

and architecture 10 1-2
definition of God 306

and Knights Templar 98-9
Beta Giorghis church, Lalibela 115-16,
171, 172

Beta Mariam church, Lalibela 1 14,

116-17, 503

Bethshemesh, battle 373

Ark at 282, 340
Betyls (sacred stones) 68

Bezaleel 127, 274, 339
Bible, electronic 412
see mainly under individual books

Bilquis 75; and see Sheba, Queen of Bir

El-Arweh (Well of Souls) 363
Black Jews of Ethiopia see Falashas

origin of Falashas 245, 456

Carignano, Giovanni da 161
Carter, Howard 288

Champagne (province) 92-3
Champagne (family) 92-3, 95, 96
Champollion, Jean Francois 309
Chartres Cathedral 44-55, 59, 64, 86,
87, 102-3, 108

Cheops, Pharaoh 310
Cherero, visit to 492-3

Cherubim, and the Ark 273-4, 288-9,

333,366,376,380-1,405
phrase ‘between the Cherubim’ 275,

414-18
Choice, Ark’s power of 70-2
Chretien de Troyes, Conte de Graal 56,
57, 62, 70, 89, 107

and Champagne 93
view of Grail 57-8
Christ see Jesus Christ
Christianity, and Ethiopia 12-13, 214,

252-4

Blessings, from Grail 69

Christianization of Grail story 57-9

Blood of Christ, and Grail 57, 58, 59

Christians, against Jewish Temple

Boat-burial, Egyptian 328-9

archaeology 387-8

Boaz, pillar 369

Christ’s blood, and the Grail 57, 58, 59

Book of the Dead, Egyptian 314, 315,

Chronicles 71, 409, 410, 413

317,324
‘BRs’ (Hebrews) 461-2

Church architecture, Lalibela 114-16,
153, 171-2

British Museum, tabotat 37-8

Church divisions, Ethiopian 254-5

Bruce, James 140-2, 147, 156-7,

Circumcision, Jewish practices 252-3

2

1

Index

592

*

Dome of the Rock, Jerusalem 93-5,

Cistercians, and Grail 58

Claudius (Galawdewos), Emperor of

100, 361

archaeological work 389-94

Ethiopia 173

Claudius Ptolemy 205

visit to 360, 362-3, 384

Cleanliness and purity 250, 253

see also Temple

Clement V, Pope 155, 160, 161, 162,

Dove symbol 513

164
Clerical vestments, Ethiopian 253-4

Ebenezer, battle 279, 340

Commandments see Ten
Commandments

Egypt 204, 305-6

astronomy 335

Conte de Graal see Chretien de Troyes

civilization 313-30

Copernicus, Nicolas 335

esoteric knowledge 298-304

Copper mining 345-6

and Ethiopia 156, 204-5

Cortezao, Dr Jaime 170

and Moses 315, 325, 331

Cosmas Indicopleustes 11-12, 18

and Plato 319-21

Covilhan, Pero de 1 7

route of the Ark from Jerusalem 213,

Creation myth 337-8

219
Egyptian temple, Elephantine 435-6

Croix patte 114, 116, 117

Axum 502-5

Ekron, Ark at 281-2

Order of Christ 171

Eldad Hadani 144-5

at

Tom 394-6

Crotser,

Eleazar, High Priest 277

Crusader cross see Croix patte

Crusades 81-2, 89

Elephantine, Aswan

temple 426-7, 429-30, 433-4,

and the Temple 91-2, 93

435-42, 447, 514

Cush (Ethiopia) 449-53

visit to 431-8

ith Earl of 186-7

Cyprus, Ethiopians in 106, 108

Elgin,

Cyrus, King of Persia 379-80

Eli, High Priest 280

1

Elijah of Ferrara 146

Daga Stephanos monastery 197, 427
visit to

198, 203, 205-11

Emery, Prof. Walter 317-19, 321
Enkutatsh (New Year feast) 253

Dagon, effigy 281
Dahlak,

MV 203, 205, 21

Ella Amida, King of Axum 1

1,

216

Enoch, Book of 181-2

Daniel, Book of 335

Eritrea 193, 486-91

David, King of Israel 259, 283-4

Eritrean People’s Liberation Front

Dead Sea Scrolls 334
Debir (Inner sanctum) 374-5, 376, 419

(EPLF) 486
Ethiopia

Debra Libanos 28
Debra Makeda 219
Debra Sehel 220-1
Debra Zion 224-5, 230- 1
visit to 223-32

chosen by the Ark 71-3

Degegna (sacred groves) 244

author’s return 194, 197, 483-515

Deluge see Flood
Dennis I, King of Portugal 167
‘Deserters’ from Elephantine 448-9

commemorated at Chartres 53-6, 64

Desta, Legesse 242, 250-1

decline and quiescence 152-3

Deuteronomy 339, 404

and Egypt 156, 204-5

Dimotheos, legate, and the Ark 122-5

and Grail story 61-4, 78, 125

and the Ark tradition 3-4, 13, 25,
121, 126, 149-50, 194-5,398
author’s earlier work with Mengistu

8-9> 43-4, 467-9

conversion to Christianity 12, 13, 83

coup attempted 192-4

3

1

Index
history and civilization 11-14, 13 12, 402

and Isaac Newton 337

Food laws 253

home of Moses 450
meaning of name 447

Franciscans, Terra Santa 395

mission to Avignon 1 60-2

Frazer, Sir James 298

place to go after Elephantine 447-8,

Frederick Barbarossa, Holy Roman

449> 455
site of ark during Manasseh’s reign

424 437
and Somalia 469-70
and South Arabia 13 1-3, 460-2
at war 8-1 1, 14-15
>

see also Tigray People’s Liberation

Front
Ethiopian Orthodox Church 37, 105
Ethiopians

593

Foresti, Jacopo Filippo 161

Emperor 82, 90
Freemasons
and Book of Enoch 182
and James Bruce 186-7, I 9 I
and Hiram Abiff 367
knowledge 306-7
Scottish 175-6

and the Shamir 369-70

and Templars 166-7, I 9 I 334
and Thoth 334
>

likened to Israelites 450-1
in Jerusalem 105, 359

Evetts, B. T. 128

Exodus 301
Exodus (book) 127, 128, 254, 273-4,

Friedman, Prof. Richard Elliott 7, 398,

400
Frumentius 12-13, 83, 140-1, 214
Futterer, Antonia Frederick 394

339 353
Ezana, King of Axum 12-13, 83, 140,
»

213
Ezekiel, Book of 336, 414-15

Faitlovich, Jacques 148

Falashas 25-8, 30-6, 147-8, 181

and the Ark at Axum 428
author’s conversations with 237, 240,

250, 424-8

and Israel 33, 240, 249, 250, 424-8
origin 132-49, 234-5, 240-1, 408,

426-7, 443, 444, 460-1

and Qemant sect 245, 456-7, 458-9
and sacrifice 136-9, 407, 408

da Gama, Christopher 173-5

da Gama, Vasco 170-1

‘Gahmuret of Anjou’ 74-7
Gamst, Frederick 241, 243
Garde-Hanson, P. 31
Gath, Ark at 281
Gawain, Sir 464
Gebra, Abba Christos 227-31

Gebra Mikail, guardian of Ark 51 1— 1
Gebre-Maskal, Emperor of Ethiopia
18, 20,

142-3

Gebru, Tewolde 472, 473, 474, 475
Gedai, Dr Belai 124, 126-7, 158, 181,

and the Talmud 249
Farouk, King of Egypt 361

197
Genesis 248, 337-8, 450

Fasilidas, Emperor 20, 30, 123, 175,

Gibbon, Edward 152, 173

261
Fertility, property of Grail 69

‘Fierfiz the Angevin’ 76-8, 79, 81

Giyon, springs of the Nile 450
Giza, Egypt 306, 309-10, 331-2

boat burial 328-9

Fire, celestial, in Temple 380

Gog and Magog 1 10

Fisher, Angela, photographer 44

Golden calf 66-7, 351
Gomer (bowl) 214, 215-16
Gondar 30-1, 198

Fisher King 58
Flad, Martin 134, 234
‘Flegetanis’ 67, 169, 515

Timkat at 254-67, 369

Flood and water legends 321, 324-9

visit to 237, 238

)

594

Index

Gothic architecture 101-2

as author of Prester John’s letter

‘Gragn’ (Ahmed Ibn Ibrahim el Ghazi)

20-1, 172, 174, 178

1 1

1-12

Hatshepshut, Queen of Egypt 307, 332

Hebrews 461-2; see also Israelites; Jews

Grail

and the Ark 64-73, 367* 5 1 5

Hekal (outer sanctum) 374-5

Christianization 57-9

description 70

Henry the Navigator, Prince of Portugal
168-70
Hermes 314

and Ethiopia 61-4, 78, 125

Hermopolis, Egypt 313, 314

growth of legends 89

Herodotus 303-4, 31 1, 442, 448, 449

invention by Chretien 62, 70, 107

Herzeloyde 76

meaning of the word 58
and Melchizedek 52, 53
and meteorites 67-9
powers and properties 65-6, 69,
70-2
borne by Rapanse de Schoye 70, 79

Heyerdahl, Thor 328

as a cup 57

Hezekiah, King of Judah 415, 416,

417-18, 454
Hiram of Tyre (Hiram Abiff) 366-9

Holy Sepulchre Church, Jerusalem 82,
85-6, 96, 105, 106, 108,359

as a stone 52, 57, 108

Horn, Siegfried H. 396-7

views of 52-3, 57-8, 70, 108

Horus, the falcon god 325

Grail temple (Munsalvaesche 220-1,

Hund, Baron Carl von 166

260
Great Pyramid, Giza 309-12, 331-2

Ichabod 281

Groves, sacred 244, 247-8, 456

Imhotep the Builder 330-1

Gudit, chieftainess 103-4, no, 145,

Imrahana Christos, King of Ethiopia

158, 226, 227-8

Gulf War 471, 479, 490, 507, 508
Guyot de Provins (‘Kyot’) 90-1, 1 19

157
India (term for Ethiopia) 81

and Prester John 82, 83-5
Innocent II, Pope 99
Institute for Restoring History

Hable-Selassie, Dr Sergew 124-5

Hadane, Raphael and Yoseph 425-7,
443 445
,

‘Hagos’, TPLF official 481-512

International 395
Isaiah, Book of 415, 416, 453-4
Isis,

moon goddess 288-9, 324—5

Islam 334

Haile Mariam, Abba 29-30

anti-Christianity 152

Haile Selassie, Emperor of Ethiopia 8,

against Ethiopia 20-1, 172-5

15-16
descent 15-16, 24

and St Mary of Zion church 15-16,
20, 21-2
Halevy, Joseph 148

Hancock, Carol 9
Hancock, Graham, role in Ethiopia 89, 43-4, 467-9

Muslims in Jerusalem 360
and Temple archaeology 387
Israel, son of Kaleb

142-3

Israel, and the Falashas 33, 240, 249,

250
Israelis, and Temple site today, 384-7
see also Jews

Israelites

Hanukkah, and Falashas 134

and Babylon 378-80

Haran, Prof. Menahem 41 1, 422-4,

out of Egypt 301-2

441
Harbay, King of Ethiopia 103, 104,

and Moses 341, 348-9,351

105, 107, 108

silence on loss of Ark 401, 404
in Wilderness 275-7

1

1

1

Index
Jachin, pillar 369

Judith see Gudit

Jan/Jano 1 1 1-12

Julian, Roman ambassador 1

Jehoash, King of Israel 373

Jung, Emma 89, 91, 96

Jehoiachin, King of Judah 374

Der fungerer Titurel 80
Justinian, Emperor 346
Juvelius, Valter H. 391

Jeremiah, prophet 382-3, 394, 410,
421, 423-4, 44i

595

Jericho, and the Ark 278, 340

Ka ’aba, black stone of the 68

Jerusalem
archaeological excavation 94-5

Kahenat (priests) 144, 250, 251, 444

occupation by Crusaders 81-2, 89

Kaleb, King of Axum 18, 142

sackings 371-8

and sacrifice 137-8

and Saladin 86, 100, 106
visit 359-99

see also Holy Sepulchre Church;

Temple
Jesus Christ baptism by water 326-7

blood of, and the Grail 57, 58, 59
as interpreter 337

Jewish Temple, at Aswan see Aswan

Jews

K’ane mahlet (inner circuit of church)
29, 254

Karnak 291, 293, 306, 307, 308, 332,
37i
Kassala 482-3

Kebede, Kassa 468
Kebero (drum) 255, 256, 258, 259,
261, 263

Kebra Nagast 25, 44, 49, 50, 52-3, 63,

7T 72, 77, 130

against Christians 1 40-9
in Ethiopia

palace 502-4

no; and see Falashas

migrations 455-8
relations with Elepantine 447

,

139, M3, 163

,

179-80, 1 8 1 219, 220, 221-2,
,

398, 400-1, 404, 515
doubts cast upon 13 1-2, 401-3,
418, 426

relations with Ethiopia 455

K’eddest (outer sanctum) 29, 254, 256,

relations with Qemant 246
at Tana Kirkos 214-15

257,374
Kenyon, Dame Kathleen 391, 394

and Temple site today 384-7

Kepler, Johann 335

see also Israelites

Keynes, John Maynard, on Newton 336

John, Saint, Book of, significance 335

Khalil, Sheikh 392, 393

John II, King of Portugal 17
John XXII, Pope 167
Johns, C. N. 100

Khartoum, author in 476-81

Jonah 326
Jordan, crossing of 278

Jordanus Catalani, Friar 84

Joseph of Arimathea 57
Josephus, Flavius, Antiquities of the Jews

295-6, 325, 402
Joshua, and the Ark 277-8
Josiah, King 137, 138, 381, 404, 406,

407, 420, 421, 439
hider of the Ark 408-1

seeker of the Ark 421-2, 442

Jotham, King 416, 454

Judah and Israel, two kingdoms 373
Judges, Book of, quoted 65-6

Kher Heb (Egyptian High Priest)
302-3
Khnum, god 435-6
Kifle-Mariam Mengist, Archpriest

207-9
Kings, Books of 248, 365, 404, 405,

406,413,415,423
Kiros, Haile 478, 480
Kitchen, Prof. Kenneth 292, 294, 459
Knights Templar 87-8, 91
as architects 99-100
and the Ark 157-8, 159, 162-3,
164,389
in Axum 503-5
collapse 154-5, 164

against Egypt 156

1

596

Index

in Ethiopia
1 55>

114-16, 119, 15 1, 153,

i59> 162-3, 167-8,

Maldives 321-2
Malory, Sir Thomas, Le Morte d Arthur

503-5
and Jerusalem 361, 363, 364

56, 57

Manasseh, King 418-20, 422, 423-4,

origin 92
in Parsival 1 12-13,
in Portugal

Makeda 75; see mainly Sheba, Queen of

1

I][

9

440-1, 454

Marduk 376, 379

67

and Prester John 1 1

Marignolli, Giovanni de 84

rules 98

Mark, Saint, gospel 327

sacred knowledge 306, 333

Mary, Blessed Virgin, as Grail and Ark

in Scodand

165-7
after Synod of Troyes 154

Temple guardians 91-4, 96, 97
see also Croix patte

59-61

Mary Theotokos 59-60
Maskal festival 253
Masons see Freemasons

Kohathites 276

Masseboth 217, 248

Krekeler, Achim 434, 437-8

Mathematics, Egyptian 304-5, 338-9

Kufu, Pharaoh 309-10
‘Kyot’ see Guyot de Provins

Mathew, Archbishop David 254
Mauro, Fra 84

Lalibela, King of Ethiopia 103-8, 112,

Mazar, Professor 388

1 14, 1 19,

145, 153, 156-7,

503
Lalibela, town (Roha) 1 13-17, 118,
171

Land of the Grail (Terre Salvaesche) 73,
79-80
Lasko, Qr Peter 50, 52-5

Lebna Dengel, Emperor of Ethiopia
171, 172-3
Lefafa Sedek 1 1 o

Leon, Peter 174
Leprosy, Miriam’s affliction 412-13

Mazengia, Shimelis 198-9, 203, 233,

235 - 7 468, 472
Mecca 68
,

Medhane Alem church, Gondar 254-8,
267
Medicine, Egyptian 305

Melchizedek
with the Grail 52, 53, 61
statue at Chartres 48, 51-2, 87

Memhir Fisseha, priest 2 1 1-1 6, 2 1 8,
402, 445-6

Menelik, Prince 4-5, 15-16, 22, 24,

Levenson, Prof. Jon D. 450

72, 132, 179-80, 213, 219,

Levites, as Ark bearers 71, 409-10,

222, 251-2, 401, 403, 426

420, 421-2
Leviticus 217, 274-5
Light, supernatural, from Grail 69-70

hidden figure in Parsival 74, 77, 78
reality questioned 402

Mengistu Haile Mariam, Lt-Col 8-9,

Litany of Loretto 60

23, 24, 192-3, 468, 469, 474,

Locusts in Ethiopia 455

486, 509

Luxor 289, 291, 293

and the author 43

Meroe 252, 427, 446, 448, 449
Ma’at (balance) 308
Maccabees, book of 382, 383, 410

Magdala 141
Magic see Occult
Mai Shum (Queen of Sheba’s pleasure
bath) 18, 503-4

Maier, Michael 337

Mak'das (Holy of holies) 29, 254, 375

Meropius 12
Mesgid (place of worship) 36, 250, 444

Mesopotamia see Assyria; Babylon;

Sumer
Metalwork
and the Ark 273-4, 353
Eyptian skill 304

Meteorites

1

Index

597

and the Grail 67-9

Nebo, Mount 383, 387-94, 395

and the Ten Commandments tablets

Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon 7,

347-8
Milner, Edward 473, 475, 477"5°9
Miriam, Moses’ sister, punished 342,

138,373-7,378,379, 409,
460, 461

Nebura-ed (senior priest) 498, 500,
505, 510, 512

412
Mishnah 217-18, 382
Moghrabi gate 384-6

Nebuzaradan 377, 378

Monoliths see Obelisks

Nephthys, goddess 288-9

Montbard, Andre de 9 2, 97-8

Newton, Sir Isaac 335-8

Moon-god, Egyptian see Thoth
Moon-goddess, Egyptian see Isis
Morgenstern, Julian 405-6

Nile

deputy 510

and Egypt 156, 289-90, 307-8
in Ethiopia 201, 242

Morte dArthursee Malory, Sir Thomas

Falasha route 427

Moses

route of Ark to Ethiopia 219, 448

and the Ark 4, 273-4, 276-7, 292,

294 351-3
,

source of 177-8, 181, 204-5

Nissim, Rabbi 388

biography 344

Noah 326, 337

death 277

Numbers, book of 71, 412

and Egypt 315, 325, 331
and Ethiopia 450

Obed-Edom the Gittite 283-4

illumination 70

Obelisks

Axum 13, 17, 18-19, 5°8, 510

and the Israelites 340-3, 348-9, 351

at

as magician 295-303, 312-13

Egyptian 307-8

creator of magic instrument 339—
40, 342-4

Mount Sinai 347, 348-9
and Isaac Newton 337-8
at

Occult, Egyptian and Mosaic 298-304

Operation Moses 240

Order of Christ 167, 168, 169-71,
174, 175

physical effects of the Ark and tablets

double cross symbol 17 1-2

351-3
rod of 299-300
and the Shamir 370

see also Knights Templar

Organization of African Unity (OAU)

in Sinai 345-6

Osiris, god of death 315-16, 324-5

comparison with Thoth 331

Otto of Freisingen, Bishop 82

Muhammad, prophet 152, 334

33

Oviedo, Bishop of 146

Muluna Marsha, Wambar 241, 242,
243-7, 456
Munsalvaesche (Mons salvationis) 220-1,

260

Music

Palestine Exploration Fund 390

Pankhurst, Prof. Richard 24-8, 36,
124, 132, 139-40, 160
visit to Ethiopia

198-9, 200-37

at festival of Apet 290-1

Park of the Stelae, Axum 18-19

at Timkat 255-6, 258-9

Parker, Montagu Brownlow 389-90,

Muslims see Islam
Mussolini, Benito 360-1

391-4
Parsival see Wolfram (von Eschenbach)
‘Parsival’ 76-7, 79, 366-7

Naakuto Laab, King of Ethiopia 157

Payens, Hugh de 92-4, 95, 96, 97-8

Nabopolassar 409

Pentateuch 249-50, 253

Nadab, son of Aaron 274, 354

Periplus of the Erythrean Sea 1

S9»

Index

Persians, against Babylonians 379-80

Revelation, Book of 336

Pharaoh, and Moses 300-1

Rhabdas 338-9
Roha, town 105; see mainly Lalibela
Rohas (Rohitscher Berg) 1 13

see also under names of individual

Romans

against Egyptians 445
Petrie, Sir William Flinders 345

destruction of Second Temple 361

Pharaohs
Philip IV of France 154-5, 164

temple on Elephantine 434-5

Rosh Haeshanah (Jewish New Year) 253

Philistines

against Israelites 279-80

Rothschild, David 396

holders of the Ark 280-2, 340, 354

Rothschild, Baron Edmond de 392

Royal chronicles, of Ethiopian emperors

Philo 297, 325
Pilgrim, Cornelius von 432-6

140

Pirenne, Jacqueline 459-62

Rufinius 12, 83

Pisgah, Mount 394, 395

Russell, John Findlay 183

Plato 319, 321,322

Plutarch 324
Poles, or staves, to transport Ark 292-

Saba/Sebha 13 1; see mainly Sheba
Sabaeans see Arabia, South
Sabbath

3? 4°5

Porten, Bezalel 441-2

Jewish and Christian 26, 253

Portugal

Qemant 246

military aid to Ethiopia 1 73

Sacrifice, and Jews 136-8, 214-18,

and Templars 167

25 E 407, 439? 444
St Catherine’s Monastery, Mount Sinai

visitors to Ethiopia

1

68-9

Prestage, Prof. Edgar 168, 170
‘Prester John’ 79, 80, 81-5, 107

346-7
St Mary of Zion church, Axum 20-3,

alleged letter to kings 82, 90, 109

123, 173, 175, 178-9

Portuguese interest 168-9, 170-1

Psalms 220-1, 414, 450

1991 496-7, 508, 511-13
St Omer, Godfrey de 92

Psammetichus, Pharaoh 448

Saladin 86, 106, 108, 359

Purim, and Falashas 134-5

Salama, Abba see Frumentius

Pyramids 309-12, 331-2

Saqqara 306, 330-1

visit in

Sargon the Great 325-6

Qemant (Hebraeo-Pagans) 241, 242,
2 43“9> 253

relationship to Falashas 245, 456-7,

458-9

Sarsa Dengel, Emperor 146
Sayce, A. H. 292-3

Schneider, R. 461
Schonfield, Dr Hugh 334

Qole (sacred groves) 244, 247-8

Science, Egyptian 305-6

Quara 427

‘Sea’, of bronze 368-9, 377

Queste del Saint Graal 59

Secret knowledge, Egyptian 305-6

Senmut, architect 332
Rabbis, and Falasha 144
Radai, King of Falashas 146-7

Sennacherib, King of Assyria 416-17,
418, 460

Raiders of the Lost Ark (film) 7-8, 14,

Serabit-el-Khadem 345

38
Ramsay, Andrew 1 66

Set, god of evil 324

‘Rapanse de Schoye’ 70, 79, 81

Shamir (magical stone) 369-70
Sheba, Queen of (Makeda) 4, 14, 179

Rehoboam 371

bath see Mai Shum

Relief Society of Tigray (REST) 478

child 78; see Menelik, Prince

Index
converted to Judaism 132

see also

not Ethiopian 13 1, 401-2

Tabotat 4

palace 16-17

Ten Commandments

at Gondar 256, 257,

portrayed at Chartres 46-55

258-67, 369
of Moses, alleged 122-3

and Solomon 22, 25, 27, 77, 179-

replicas 29-30, 36-8, 63, 124-5

80, 403

role of, at Gondar 239

Sheshbazzar, King of Judah 380

the word 129-30, 294

Shetiyyah (stone of foundation) 95, 360,

see also Ark of the Covenant

361-3, 381, 392

Takazze, river 213, 219, 222-3, 2 34“

Shiloh 137, 279

5,

242, 427, 482

373

Talmud, quoted on the Ark 380
Tana, Lake 243

Sigoli, Simone 84

Isaiah’s reference to 453-4

Sin, Sumerian god 318, 321

monasteries 29

Sinai, Mount 275, 298, 346-9

and Qemant sect 456

Soloman Gabre Selassie, Archpriest

safekeeping of the Ark 175, 197,

Shishak (Sheshong), Pharaoh 371-2,

Liga Berhanat 194-7

Solomon
apostasy 365
places Ark in Temple 4, 6-7, 69,

198, 514
visit to 202-5

see also Daga Stephanos

Tana Kirkos, resting place for the Ark

365-6

212-14,

builds Temple 285
grief over loss of Ark 401

223, 402, 427,

428, 445-6
visit to 209-16,

221

portrayed at Chartres 48

Tankwas (long boats) 203-4, 455

and Queen of Sheba 22, 25, 27, 77,

Tapet 294

179-80, 403
their son 78; see Menelik, Prince

Tchatcha-em-Ankh 302

‘stables’ 100, 361

Tekla Haimanot, Saint 28

Tebah (arks) 291, 294

Somalia, relations with Ethiopia 469-

Tellez, Balthazar 458

70
Sophia (wisdom) 334

Templars see Knights Templar
Temple, Solomon’s, at Jerusalem 4,

‘Stables of Solomon’ 100, 361

6-7. 69, 137, 285,365-6

Stecchini, Prof. Livio 305

containing a cube 366

Stelae see Obelisks

and Crusaders 91-2, 93

Stem, Henry Aaron 135-6, 138

replicated at Elephantine 439

Stones, as meteorites 67-9

history 361

see also Grail

and Isaac Newton 336

Strabo 205

as prison for the Ark 366

Sudan, and author’s visit to Axum

repair under Josiah 421

470-3
visit to 476-86
Sumer 317-18, 325-6
Susneyos, Emperor 147, 148

site,

Tablets, of Ten Commandments 3501, 406

effect on Moses 351-3

as meteorite 347-8

599

Dome of the Rock 360

Second, built 380
Third, feared 387-8

Temple Church, London 99, 221
Temple Mount, Jerusalem 93-4, 100-1
archaeological digs 387-97

massacre at 384-7

Ten Commandments, on tablets 4, 6,
66, 274, 339, 347> 35 0-1

7

6oo

1

Index

Terre Salvaesche (Land of the Grail) 73,

157, 160, 162, 164, 168

Weil, Dr Shalva 425, 429, 431, 443

79-80
Tesfaye, driver 481-507

'

West, John Anthony 308

Tessenei 488-90

Westcar papyrus 302

Thebes ( Thebai) 293-4

Wilderness, Israelites in 275-7

Theodoric 100-1

Willets, Duncan, photographer 9

Thoth, moon-god 313-16, 318, 321,

William de Chartres 99

323 - 4 334 337
and Freemasons 334
,

,

Imhotep as successor 331
comparison with Moses 331

William of Tyre, Archbishop 92

Wisdom, and the search for the Ark
333 4 339,355
,

Wolfram von Eschenbach, Parsival 52,

Thutmosis I 307

53-4, 56-7, 62, 63, 66, 70, 71,

Tigray, arrival 1991 491

86, 89, 108, 220-1, 260

see mainly under

Axum

Tigray People’s Liberation Front

and the Ark 119-20, 515
and Ethiopia 74, 78-80

(TPLF) 8, 10, 16, 43, 193,

view of Grail 57, 108

236, 462, 467, 468-9

and ‘Kyot’ 90

and author’s visit to Axum 470-3,

as Templar 52, 91

and Axum 509-10

and the Templars 1 12-13, 1 9
Wondemu 203, 206-11

and Sudan 478, 480-1

Writing, Egyptian 316

475 478
,

Timkat (ceremony of Epiphany) 5-6,
18, 180, 428

author’s wish to attend 232-3, 2367, 268, 365, 464, 467, 474-5

r990, at Gondar 254-67, 369
1991, at Axum 497, 498, 501, 505,

512-13
Trees, sacred, to Qemant 247
‘Tribalibot’ (name for Ethiopia) 81

Troyes 353
Troyes, Synod of 98, 102, 154

Tutankhamen, Pharaoh 288-9
Tyasu the Great, Emperor of Ethiopia

Yagba Zion, King of Ethiopia 157,
163-4
Yahweh, and Moses 298-9
Yared, Saint 20
Yeadara, god of Qemant 245

Yekuno Amlak, King of Ethiopia 157,
163

Yemen, possible source of Ethiopian
Jews 13 1-3, 460
Yitshaki, Rabbi Shelomo 353

Yom Kippur 253
Yoma in Mishnah 2 1
,

179
Ullendorff, Prof. Edward 130-1, 133,

Zagwe dynasty 103-4, 106, 145, 157

254 - 5 443
Unterman, Rabbi 388
Urim and Thummim 380
Uzzah, killed by the Ark 283, 340

‘Zazamanc’ (name for Ethiopia) 74, 81

,

Uzziah, King of Judah 413-14, 416

Zedekiah, King of Judah 376

Zegie 427
Zelelew, Berhane Meskel 15-21

Zephaniah, book of 451-2
Zion, as Ark of the Covenant 143

‘Wailing wall’, Jerusalem 385-6, 388

Zoser, Pharaoh 330-1

Wambar see Muluna Marsha

Zwai, lake

Warren, Lt Charles 389-91

home of the Ark 158, 197, 228

Water see Flood

sacred books 230-1

Wedem Ara’ad, Emperor of Ethiopia

visit 223-32

w

f

(

continued fr om front flap )

reveals

what the Ark was and explores its

frightening and real power. Readers will be

taken step-by-step through the research and

Hancock ultimately to the
ancient sanctuary in Ethiopia where the Ark

travel that led

rests today

South San

graham Hancock was the East Africa cor-

Francisco
Public

respondent for The Economist and is the

Library

England.

author of several previous books on Africa

and the Third World. He lives in Devonshire,

Author photograph © Jerry Bauer 1992

Crown Publishers, Inc.

New 'fork
3/92
Copyright © 1992 Crown Publishers, Inc. Printed in the U.S.A.

t

.

r-

*

'

c.-

*

,

//
*
•

/'-'

!

-

y? ?

;

.

5>

.=

-:•

;

.« >„
-

..

.

.

-;/

-!•%

•
•

tl’j

$:>/

.".'

».

%i

/•* !?

.

.

..

-/

5X.:

.

r

•

•>

>

r

.

-

I77W:

.

23

THE SUBJECT OF THIS BOOK
COULD CONSTITUTE THE
SINGLE MOST SHATTERING
SECRET OF THE LAST

90000)

|9

780517 578131

f

ISBN -517-57313-1
w r^

