And we will hear testimony today concerning recent revelations about a purportedly secret UAP program  whose existence and findings may have been improperly withheld from Congress.  This is going to be the original document about Immaculate Constellation.  Those of us who have been following this very closely have been hearing whispers of the words Immaculate Constellation for a few months now.  The Immaculate Constellation, it's a UAP reconnaissance program.  I can affirm this 100%.  What is in here is wild.  I mean, they're saying, I'm paraphrasing, but reports of F-22s getting like boxed in by flying orbs that they couldn't shake.  There were satellite images or satellite image of a football field sized flying saucer hiding in clouds.  I have personally walked people into members offices for private meetings so they could see eye to eye and they could meet.  You are the author of what the world knows as the Immaculate Constellation report.  It has been allowed to corrupt and infest every aspect of our society to serve the interests and whims of a very elite select few.  The following is an interview with the author of the Immaculate Constellation report that was submitted into congressional record.  Is it ironic you have to put your face out with us to protect yourself at this point?  That's what we're doing, right?  Yeah, that's what we're doing.  This is absolutely wild.  This is what I did not want to do.  You've worked in secret programs.  You've got clearances.  You've made oaths that you would keep secrets.  Let's talk about secrecy and the UAP topic.  Shouldn't it be secret to some degree?  I mean, we have there's a race for the technology to try to understand it.  We have adversary nations who'd love to get it ahead of us.  Why not keep this stuff secret?  Well, if it was just technology that we are worried about protecting and maintaining military advantage.  And, you know, there's strong arguments to be made and have successfully been made for decades in this country that the American leadership and American people seem to be finding acceptable to be left in the dark about, you know, where science, technology and their military is taking them.  This isn't just technology.  This isn't something somebody came up with in a lab and it's sensitive because once the cats have the bag, anybody can do it fundamentally.  This comes from in a secondary to.  Yeah.  Okay.  You've been told is the biggest question, which is, is humanity alone?  The answer is no.  And the secrecy that has been defended is at the cost of, in my mind, human dignity, freedom and progress.  And it is no longer permissible or acceptable in my mind to to continue this course to deprive another generation of not just Americans, but humanity.  Or their birthright to know.  Who they are, where they came from and what's with us.  Can you give us a general description of the size of the secrecy apparatus?  You know, we're going to drill down to this, of course, about income, income and one particular facet of the secrecy that you came across and other parts of it.  But how big of a secrecy apparatus is it?  How many stovepipes are there?  How many people are involved in different ways of keeping this secret, confusing the public, lying to Congress, lying to the world?  Simply put, it's a parallel reality.  The secrecy apparatus is all pervasive.  It is not just in the intelligence community governing their world.  It's not just in the military protecting their operations.  It's not protecting our diplomats and leaders as they conduct their work, sometimes in very dangerous places.  It has been allowed to corrupt and infest every aspect of our society.  Uh.  To serve the interests and whims of a very elite, select few.  And it's been used to intimidate, threaten, destroy the lives of people like yourselves who have been doing their job, keeping their oaths, trying to protect their country, being true to humanity and paid prices for it.  Absolutely.  This has been a difficult process for you, for me and you, you know, kind of going through this.  I've seen what you've gone through.  Personally, with this, you're taking a personal hit, like a painful risk, just talking to us, just doing this.  Finally, after all this time, I think I understand why you're explaining something philosophical, what you believe about the secrecy, just personally, like, what is the step for you to do this?  Like, why?  I need to understand why.  Why are you telling this to everybody now?  Now, there's no short answer.  It's something.  You know, I have many, not even competing, but parallel motivations.  But why now look out at the world, look inside our country?  We are not headed to a good future.  You're concerned.  I am.  Explain the concern.  Ultimately, my biggest fear is what humanity will do to itself out of fear and greed.  And what we have done, and we have built a prison around ourselves, it's invisible, but it's not complete, and there is still time to maybe alter our trajectory, have a different future, may not be the best one that we had hoped for, but it's going to be damn sight better than what they have planned for us.  You know, there's no going back after you tell us this on camera.  We had this conversation.  This is it.  This is the line in the sand.  You're about to cross over here.  Absolutely.  I am on a personal level giving up the future that I made for myself and was going to try to make for a family.  I'm proud of what I accomplished in my time in government, and it's painful to leave the good people there and to know that there really isn't room for people to act according to their conscience.  I know that.  Is that.  We were under extraordinary  Is it.  Is it your belief?  On the inside.  Is it your belief based on materials, things that you been exposed to that you've seen people you've talked to and communicated with over a period of a couple of years.  Is your belief that this, the technology, the race for the technology, the understanding of the big secret is entirely in the hands of people outside the government and not for the benefit of the public or to protect American national security.  It's it's in some of the realm in certain believing 잠 is 가족.  It's its.  It's in some of the realm in certain.  It's it.  some other hands i think it's a mix um you know i think our military you know has a long historic  involvement in this so does our intelligence community and our scientific academic community  we have as a country allowed ourselves to be penetrated co-opted and corrupted by an  internationalist force that serves their interests and views nations peoples as as tools and means  to an end like a business cabal international corporations that have no loyalty to any nation  let alone this one that's a large part of it i think uh we go have to go above that too to like  start to explain the the degree of the level of deception and the level of commitment they've had  to maintaining that deception it's above just monetary gain and power they're afraid george  and i've talked about whistleblowers that come to us and we protect them we don't often  report them we don't report them we don't report them we don't report them we don't  we don't report them we don't report them we don't report them we don't report them we don't  support on when people come to us um we're doing this now you know what are the repercussions  people talk about whistleblowers being afraid and there's one set of being afraid which is  when you're squeezed by outside entities you know that are fucking with you which has happened to  you we'll talk about that but what are the just the legal implications of what you're about to  talk to us today tell me the gravity right now what are you facing what i want our audience  to understand what it means for you to talk to us right now what could happen to  you my uh hope is that the stakes are uh not paid out um but they are life imprisonment and  the possibility of execution and you've tried all the right ways i've helped you on some of the we've  tried you have tried all the right ways to do this but you have something much bigger that that  is pushing on you that you have to take this next step forward and so now i just want people to  understand where you're at and i just want people to understand where you're at and i just want  people to understand where you're at and i just want people to understand where you're at and you're  coming from we say we protect whistleblowers when people come to us not everybody goes on camera but  also just you work uh currently in department of state but maybe he should tell us his history yeah  let's do a chronological so you got a degree in what uh so i got a degree in international affairs  came out to dc started working in a small think tank from there i applied to and was accepted to  a intelligence agency ended up taking a job  at the at the pentagon um basically waiting for the right opportunity for that world to to pop up um  what was which one it did uh i you know was having too much fun so i said no you're in the pentagon  weapons of mass destruction as a general umbrella under which you're working did you got a security  clearance at that point yeah i had been cleared by dia for a top secret uh sci clearance you get  to see i guess firsthand all this different information that comes in from all over these  places different platforms right you're exposed to that and you get an idea of just how big that  apparatus is yes yes absolutely um ufos and aliens aside it's a it it's a different world without  anything exotic in it when you are exposed and to that information and learning over time not  just from the intelligence but the experiences of the people around you because uh not everything  has happened in the world is written down on paper i mean you're given a lot of roles and  responsibilities it gives you access to very sensitive information when you said sci that's  secret compartmentalized information is the acronym sensitive compartmentalized information  i always yeah it's probably right yeah so you know about me but i'm just saying you know  you are a sane human being you're given a lot of these responsibilities um you know you i just  think it's important for people to understand so you have access to the information that you're  given you have access to very critical information through the united states government that's  separate from the ufos and the alien you know topic that we're going to talk about for the world for  the world of us in the world yes and that weighs heavy on you i'm sure like you're you're really  looking to defend the united states of america where you live and you are looking at information  that is just highly sensitive i think it's important for people to know good people like you  doing great jobs in there you had access and responsibilities people trust you that that's  you can't get there without that  it is um yeah it's a very uh burdensome uh rule i feel deeply for the people who have been there  for many years um a lot of hidden suffering that comes from it but it is a you know i i thought it  was a noble and good mission i still do and risks i imagine there's all kinds of information that  comes across your desk and that desk of other people you're working with at that point about  weapons of mass destruction the movement of nuclear weapons or  suddenly material that disappears and where do they go black market um biological weapons research  things that are going on around the world that we need to keep an eye on right  yeah and things that never make the news uh you're absolutely right yeah there there is uh  like i said there is a whole many there's many worlds there's many shells to our reality that  the public including our professional media class our professional academic class our political  class has absolutely no idea exists and if they do have an idea they have a very distorted one  sometimes intentionally so i mean you're not like um some secret agent you're not let's say  secret agent so like so people understand when you're working in at the pentagon is where we're  out in the thing i mean this is we have a lot of great people that are bright-minded working on  these problems for the united states keeping the united states safe looking at geopolitical aspects  of nuclear weaponry that kind of thing but just to be clear i mean you're not that some secret agent  with more access than anybody else or anything like that no i uh never uh wanted to be a field  officer i danced with the idea in my dreams maybe and read the books but uh i knew that wasn't for me  um especially the the the task and the cost of befriending and manipulating and ultimately using  people um i don't think i would have been very good at that like human human intelligence yeah  false friendship exactly does that stuff come across your desk human intelligence  signals intelligence regarding weapons of mass all sources all sources intelligent all sources  of intelligence and if there are questions you can go ask them and usually get the answers  and the kinds of things that you see that come across your desk does it give you pause  how am i going to sleep that i know and that this xyz is going on somewhere  at times when they think oh crap how did this happen everyone has like their different standard  what's going to you know shake them like that and i've definitely had a few of those  um i won't share them but yeah but i mean just with security bring national security kind of  stuff right stuff unrelated to exotic things that are very just world out there okay you're there  for a while you do that for how many years oh see i was in there a little over four years but i was  in the pentagon a little over five because i moved uh out of there briefly into uh the  undersecretary of defense for intelligence and a  hemlock Shocker and 3d and we have the chief executive officer of the pfad office we have  heard of that office we have heard of that office um what was a different sort of work or the same  thing just for a different but same field different work different boss different  community so you're working for a contractor but you're working at the pentagon on pentagon  business and that's sort of a model that is used for all kinds of programs right yeah um  that's that's the industry in dc is that they have a buffer of some sort  why why is it why is that well you have government management  and in the three dc when u need to get into the pfad office and now it's not in a可是witch  And they're supposed to be the ones that, you know, they sign the checks, make the final decisions.  But most of the staff is contractors, military people on detail, people on fellowships from, you know, either think tanks or universities.  So you get to be familiar with snowpipes and how, you know, you could be working on this and the guy may be in the office next to you or the desk next to you is working on something else and you don't know what they're working on.  Yeah, I mean, it can be that way.  My experience was more that we had a team.  It was all more or less on the same information level.  But then there'd be other teams that, yeah, they have their own.  So it's not quite as isolated.  I've heard from others.  It can be just, you know, it's you and no one else around you knows what you're doing.  You've got a company.  It's a contractor that's working there in the Pentagon.  How much oversight is there from the actual Pentagon, the military of a contractor's work?  Well, I mean, the day to day is overseen by the government.  So in that sense.  It's it's there.  And is that generally true for all the contractor programs that we'll be getting into later?  Somebody in the military or I see is is looking at what that contractor does.  No, I couldn't say.  Right.  Yeah, I could not say we got the one degree and then you you went on to try to get a master's.  Yeah, I went to George Washington University Masters of Security Policy Study, got to the point where I had a thesis to submit.  And then I started working at the Pentagon, took a break and kind of got caught up in the churn, as the term is right.  I'm curious about just what it's like to work at the Pentagon.  I mean, to think you're driving to work.  There it is, the heart and soul of the national security of our country.  You're doing important work, weapons of mass destruction in the biggest office building in the world.  I would think it'd be a lot of satisfaction in that.  But I wonder what day to day is like.  Are you under surveillance?  Do you have to do polygraphs?  Can you tell?  Your wife, what you're doing?  Do you socialize with colleagues or do you have to worry about what you say to whom and where?  Yeah.  So, I mean, started with the first part.  I think for me, at least, yeah, it was like I finally made it right.  I'm at I'm working out the Pentagon.  I it's cheesy, but I felt pride pretty much every single day that I rolled in there.  That's not cheesy.  And it was I was very fortunate to join a.  An office that cared a lot about their people, not just their performance at work, but their goals, their desires and how they were getting on with life in general.  Fewer places are like that.  But I look back on that time with a lot of with a lot of happiness.  How do things begin to sour?  Is it because of this topic that we're going to discuss?  Yes.  Let's take it from there.  When does that start?  What's your first exposure?  I mean.  Were you like a UFO guy like before?  I mean, like there's something that happened and there was an instigator.  Right.  But it's like, you know, were you like a UFO guy all your years back or.  To some degree, I've always been interested in aliens and UFOs, secret histories, the things that are hidden from us.  It's been a lifelong kind of passion.  It's not always aliens.  You know, while I was always interested in these things, they were never they were only a realm of possibility.  And when I looked at UFOs in a serious way, as I was more in my college years, I got just not exposure, but I started learning about the sort of ecosystem of secrecy in the military industrial complex, what saps are, what caps are.  And you start to realize like, oh, yeah, there's a good chance a lot of what these UFO things are, some really cool stuff that we have, whether it's in the air, under the water or.  Right in front of you, you're not getting a job at the Pentagon because you want to get access to the UFO scene.  No, no.  When I joined, I thought, you know, I pretty much locked down that, you know, there might be life out there.  But most I think most what we're seeing in the skies at that time, I thought was either ours or ally or adversary.  You don't go over the deep end.  You're not going to move on conferences.  You're not wearing a beanie and alien stuff on your head.  No, no.  In fact, you know, I would be looked at like I had a third eye just by.  Suggesting there were stealth satellites.  I mean, in fact, you've never been to like a UFO conference or anything like that, have you?  No, no.  Right.  That's not your style.  No.  You're a very analytically minded person.  It's something I've learned.  I bet you're fucking really good at your job because just the way our communications, the way you deep dive into research, that's a talent to be able to pull a lot.  Big source information, all source information and kind of come to conclusions that you that is one of your skill sets.  Yeah, absolutely.  Did you ever.  Did you ever.  Work nine to five because you're kind of a workaholic, right?  And you go over the top.  Yeah, yeah.  You know, I really liked the Pentagon.  I learned an immense amount there and I would stay there till the wee hours of the morning learning.  Which is also how you found out information about the topic.  Topic.  I delved too deeply.  And you came across this sort of accident.  Hundred percent accidentally.  Well, sorry.  The Immaculate Constellation piece.  So this hundred percent accidentally before I was exposed to that, you know, I had seen UAP on military videos in the Pentagon, but nothing that suggested, you know, origin intent or in the level of detail that, you know, I came to find later, you know, hat.  So explain that to the average with like, how do you just come across UFO videos in the Pentagon?  What does that mean?  What tells somebody who has no idea how that happened?  So you have a clearance and there's a secret internet and on that secret internet, there's just a generic access like you and I, uh, it's all very secret sensitive stuff, but more or less everyone can look at what's on there.  Then, you know, you have on this secret internet, uh, some compartmentation, uh, light compartmentation, uh, as it were.  And then there's a secret internet.  There's entirely different systems for truly, truly, uh, sensitive stuff.  But the point is, is that there is, uh, essentially, you know, a shared, a shared community of knowledge, uh, and it goes back, you know, just like our own internet.  It goes back, uh, over decades.  If you have a top secret clearance, you go on J Wix, you can pretty much go and see whatever is on there except for special compartmentalized stuff.  Yeah, pretty much.  Or things that, you know, are just, uh, people protect their business processes.  So who would be putting UFO type or UAP videos on there?  How does that happen?  How do they end up there?  Uh, service members and intelligence officers, uh, who for one reason or another, uh, decided to put that footage there.  What's the first UFO video you see?  What, what'd you think of it or military film footage of a UFO?  What, what did you, uh, what was that like?  Well, technically the first true, like military footage was.  that i saw uh was that tic-tac video and the go fast video and um i think there's one other else  uh the gimbal video that all came out in 2017 um granted i didn't see those on military systems but  just being uh precise here yeah um and so things that i saw after that kind of looked like all that  but just uh much more duration the videos you know it's the internet uh whether it's secret or  not there's compression there's upload and file sizes so some things are crystal clear but it's  only 15 seconds um some things you can see 45 minutes of something moving around but it's kind  of blurry because that's a lot of data so you've seen crystal clear at times um videos of what  appear to be would you say um non-human intelligence made craft i mean what you see evidence that the  the rest of the world doesn't  get to see that starts happening yeah um nothing in those videos necessarily proves it's  extraterrestrial or non-human it certainly is anomalous exotic and unexplainable and advanced  yes beyond our capabilities that you know i don't know some of it might have might have been our  within our capabilities to replicate even in an inferior manner but quite a lot of it  you know  it's either something else or uh we live in a world where we have been left behind 2017 these  stories come out new york times and other media the videos become known that sparked your curiosity  and you start looking around for that kind of stuff or it would just come across your desk and  in front of your eyes naturally yeah so not looking for that stuff did you have access to  live feeds yes so live feeds real time you could go into like a reaper drone and see if there's  something going on just i mean not that you're specifically looking for ufos but you had access  even to live feeds yeah um you know not anything special no special access but you know you you  know where those resources are you can go look at them and i did um i want to go back to this  you said with these nuclear facilities nuclear weapons nuclear labs  nuclear  power plants within a year or two like are you saying all of them get visited or are there some  strange phenomena i can't say that they all do but i would i would suspect that you know anything  that is uh sufficiently nuclear uh will draw attention at some point and will be uh they will  be encountering and what are they what do you see it what kinds of things are you seeing so i mean  nothing too dramatic when it comes to like these facilities a lot of times it's it's  boarbs of uh you know it's hard to always judge the size but i'd be surprised if it's bigger than  a cessna probably something somewhere in between um whether it's white or silverish or if you're  looking through different sensor apparati uh it'll you know look like whatever hot or cold is  but usually orbs around these facilities sometimes things that look a bit more irregular  but the vast majority being orbs i mean the world's  has been exposed to some of this there's been a clarification to the general public about what  are you seeing when you're seeing infrared or flare it takes some translation there are people  that focus on that and like they can read that but basically um you're looking at things that  don't have flight control surfaces that don't have traditional propulsion they seem to tag along  which we've heard forever with nuclear events that kind of thing nuclear structure um but you  you see a lot of these start getting exposed to them i mean just to begin doesn't that does  that start or doesn't that start to kind of um feed that curiosity in you you just all of a  sudden the average person but you're now seeing stuff that you can't yeah you have to be a special  kind of boring to not be interested after seeing those states it's shocking especially knowing the  context of what you're looking at right which you get when you have those systems that can look at  that a hundred percent what's the context with like the  picture like what's what's the context yeah and in this in this way are you seeing images is there  a discussion is there text that comes along with us hey we we saw this thing what the hell is it  it's not us surprisingly little of that i think um the community kind of knows or knew we don't  talk about this it's there um you know that changed uh some years ago but it's since been  i think uh shut down again in terms of like you know community participation  solving the problem so people within the intelligence community know you don't talk  about this out loud you don't say the quiet part out loud you post stuff you kind of get then you  get an era of discussion when this starts coming forward 2017 new york times story but then you're  explaining that there's been a kind of clamp down on that dialogue and discussion i've heard that  from a lot of people on the inside you witnessed that too uh yes absolutely both firsthand and from  you know hearing from friends and connections yes uh the screws were tightened and um certain  agencies you're not allowed to mention certain whistleblowers names or you'll be fired immediately  so there's no announcement on the pa system there's no uh leaflets left in the cafeteria  no memo put out if it says don't talk about this stuff but you know yeah yeah um you pick up on  that vibe real quick when you say there's certain whistleblowers names you can't mention this brings  me back to a friend of ours went when george is doing his newsreel  report on bob lazar first time i was going to air he just said when he was up at area 52 he just  said hey you should pay attention to the news his career was over he got pulled into room the next  day i would call him a friend of ours um i interviewed him about it i mean that was done  he just mentioned that to watch george's news report again we're not equating bob lazar to to  anything what we're just saying that happened so what do you mean if you mention certain whistleblowers  who who david grush you can't mention david grush and  professional settings or you are fucked yeah if you're not fired you are uh in for a very  rough time is my understanding elizondo you know i didn't hear elizondo as a no-go word  saying david look david grush testified in con open congress so that makes sense so  what have you seen it happen have you seen people like mention his name how do you become a way you  can't even talk about him so that specific uh example yeah heard from a friend at that agency  that was essentially the first time i heard about david grush and david grush and david grush and  the word of mouth from management nothing written in paper nothing in emails but from what it sounds  like people got a conversation with their leadership and were told as much as we've just  gone over um and his name was absolutely the first-hand experience sort of radioactive in  the chat rooms it would either all of a sudden these people that um never participate are there  really slamming him and slamming the people talking about him on the classified internet  indeed our space is one we've talked about about  but these are these where people had open dialogue it just got a clamp down and his name was part of  that that's what you meant when you said certain people are radioactive you can't mention their  names right okay who knows and good yeah we're no we're nuclear he's radioactive with different  designation yeah so you're seeing these videos and some limited discussion you can't really  openly talk about it but you're curious you're you're kind of hooked on the topic yeah and and  to be clear uh uh 2018 when this first exposure happened and for the first time i've seen david grush  for about a few years after it was it did at least feel more open looking back on it this was probably  a counterintelligence prerogative at the time but it was allowed to exist the discussion was allowed  to exist and it felt more like you know people were excited to finally actually be able to talk  about this and finally be able to try to compare notes figure it out well that's when the uap task  force was created they didn't call it that but it was up and running and they were trying to make  entreaties out to the intelligence community and dod  hey they wanted input from an old and partners yeah so i i saw that emerge and i saw it die  it's all die and when you say exposure we're going to get into this but you mean  it technically it's called spillage it's when you see something that is of a compartmentalized  or nature that you are not specifically cleared to see and you were exposed to something and it  was like holy shit what is this and the first thoughts of that i'm interested in so if we're  at that point yeah okay so let's talk about that look the whole  world that knows about imcon immaculate constellation we're saying that word out loud  at one time that was very dangerous to say out loud to write to text we should talk about that  but before this is your gateway this is the the entrance point what happened how did it happen  what did you see what did you think yeah so the first exposure uh or the exposure to immaculate  constellation uh happened on a shared server  that was shared by all the offices in osd um what i was doing throughout what i was doing at the time  was opening files that were clearly misfiled and either sorting them to our offices uh you know  part of that uh server or putting them in their own box to be sorted by other response to your  jobs i mean this is more like volunteer duty but yes so because you're a workaholic and you're  curious and you read a lot um you come across a file that really is a file that you're not  really is what leads us to being here today it's uh this it's the shriver file yeah so it was labeled  um 2018 shriver war game might have been brief or something else but that's it um there's nothing  about that that screams you know it's a very interesting thing in fact usually a lot of war  game briefs are pretty boring um so there's nothing that stood out about it accidental  exposure for you 100 you you go into it and what do you see  uh there's a just a generic title slide there's a banner without classification markings that just  says immaculate constellation and it has a placeholder slide that shows like the shriver  orbit or shriver airbase logo and the some logos of the units involved but at that time i believe  it would have still been like air force space command adjacent uh so still nothing particularly  uh stunning i think the name of the title is just a generic title slide there's a banner without  the top probably just the name of the exercise um so the next slide though is where it gets  interesting uh because the face of lou elizondo is on that next slide and i was not who i was  expecting to see and it was accompanied by text um to summarize uh please have some grace with  me it's been seven years but it was saying that immaculate constellation is an unacknowledged  special access program uh established after the exposure of atip  in 2017 by former usdi officer lou elizondo uh and you know that that's the gist of that first  slide and so i'm looking at that and you know nothing particularly uh convincing that that's  alien related or what the sap is or what it's doing um so i don't know what to make of this  so i read the whole thing and uh yeah it got very interesting very quick so it's designated  as a sap you know this is a sap it's sitting on a server maybe it shouldn't be on correct right so  i think that's important and also it seems like it's just a response to the the public spillage  or exposure that we saw come forward with people like and specifically lou elizondo this was like  an internal classified response to the fact oh some of this is out now yeah that's exactly  the the tone um uh of those words of that slide that's the implied uh order of events that led to  being established so it's like 2018 maybe yeah the the file was at least last accessed in 2018  um i can't remember if it did say you know the file creation date or if i looked it up but i  know it was last accessed and you see who's accessed it prior to you i can't and and what  did you see so everyone says that i'm wrong it's impossible but the name i recall and recalled at  the time thinking oh that's odd was name redacted and did you know who that was vaguely at that time  right you know people are considered superstars in leadership circles so you just hear names like  that and that's what her name was why would that be impossible why are people now in retro why are  people telling you that would be impossible oh she wasn't at the pentagon then where was she  she was at the pentagon to my knowledge but they're saying she wasn't there right interesting  so all right so shriver war games you keep reading there's a big slide with lou elizondo's face on it  what comes next i mean you get a sense that i shouldn't be able to read this here  no not yet actually um to be clear at that point in time i had no formal training in what saps were  there was no sap marking on this just a name immaculate constellation um the the opening  slide you know just we would call it improperly labeled um improperly classified what was it what  what did show so the the next slide the third slide about uh just jumps straight into the the  mission of this app and showing what uh  apparently the results of that mission are and it's um a a collection incident in the pacific  ocean uh the subject of collection is uh several russian naval intelligence vessels in the middle  of the ocean at night and above those vessels is a large black triangle uh floating in the air  this is a still image but it is a color okay so that's the first kind of event but what was the  mission what was the mission that's what people want to know is what was the mission of the  macula constellation as described in the product so in the product itself you had to piece together  the mission by reading the whole thing and kind of putting together the parts uh you know it never  spelled out fully like as it should uh the mission of the sap and i assume that's because this is a  type of brief where there will be inserts to the deck which would be inserted by the sap control  officer during the briefing that would provide another level of detail  but based on the information included in there and its description um the mission becomes apparent  and that is a bare minimum it's the uh intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance uh mission of  globe of a global nature for uaps and rvs arvs the hesitation there is uh some time has passed  one of those acronyms is in there either rv or arv and that is how the triangle in this case was  labeled it's been seven years so as you're reading through this and and that you're remembering rv or  arv just for our audience so rv is you know um reverse reproduction vehicle yeah and the arv  would mean um an anomalous reproduction you know we see uh you know yeah people in the literature  say alien reproduction vehicle it could just be anomalous advanced or advanced it could be  anything that can go after a oh you so you don't know what that is but i don't this is a pretty  interesting uh image here it is and then the text that accompanies it describes the incident and  what can you tell us yeah the summary of that is just the how how it unfolded um i should i should  actually back up and say the image itself was unique uh this isn't by a plane or a satellite  uh it it looks to be a image pretty close to the waterline uh so something that to me you read is  we have a clandestine submersible asset close by this fleet and it's taking pictures uh trying  to stay unnoticed um and so yes in the description it basically lays out what what occurred that  night uh which was that the the our collection assets were there in area monitoring russian  naval vessels uh not sure what they're doing there um but they've been hanging out in the  middle of the ocean in this place apparently for a few days keep an eye on them and this night  uh while they are  observing the russian vessels a large black triangle materializes or decloaks or something  the point is is it did not move it appeared above the directly above these ships probably  no more than 200 meters pretty close and interestingly as noted in the report itself  there was no visible reaction from these vessels from what would almost certainly be considered a  hostile approach what do you what do you uh what do you take for away from that they didn't notice  it  or they're not upset about it or they don't know what to do with it or or what so the implication  also in the text describing it was uh or sorry i should say the analysis in the text was that  the russian navy uh had foreknowledge that this vehicle would appear in that area of the ocean  and they were there specifically to either collect on it themselves or to interact with it in some  way any indication that it might be theirs that they knew it's going to be there because they  control it not in that document  um and i haven't seen anything to make me think uh that they controlled that particular craft but  didn't see anything to the contrary either i guess it could be that they've seen it before that  there's nothing they can do about it so don't get excited about it might be although it is  interesting you know if it's something that's part of their environment as it were why are  they making an effort to be in this space at this time to collect on something they already know  about is it like in the middle of nowhere yeah it's off the coast of the ocean and they're not  in the middle of nowhere yeah it's off the coast of the ocean and they're not  camp chotka is as i recall in the pacific ocean that's what struck me i mean my mind goes to the  idea that they were kind of camped out you know deep uh kind of ocean in this one specific area  durationally um it kind of implies to me if i'm thinking outside the box here there's some form of  um comms or communication with whoever the operators are of this craft am i going too  far with that idea i think it's a reasonable one to have um but it's not one that i can like  validate yeah let's be clear you were exposed to something we're just touching yeah the basics  here we're we're theorizing we're talking about a bunch of stuff we don't know but the descriptions  that you were exposed to kind of give you a little insight that we can at least look at some of those  assumptions right right absolutely and i'm sure there's a literature out there that can help  narrow down so immaculate constellation you've never heard this uh term before um and it doesn't  give you the full picture there but what other additional  information did it give about what this was and how it operates just describe the events and  that analysis of the event of the russians having foreknowledge to be there  um and describing how the event occurred as i just went over so this is a page turner so you know  you're interested yeah you're curious now absolutely what do you do next what do you  go to the next page and it was disappointing because we get into a couple slides of orbs  and i had already seen orbs at this point in the official setting so the next pages show orbs from  different parts of the world it looks like the pattern is that there's the under this immaculate  constellation they're gathering uap images from all over the place absolutely i mean that's the  core of it right um is the idea that we uh collect data on these uap and someone needs to bring them  collate them together to provide intel to who needs it and we're assuming or not assuming it's  been pretty laid out the market constellation was a a kind of place to bring everything  together to provide those briefings to senior leadership is that correct i don't know about  to provide briefings but definitely to to uh collect data from the military intelligence  enterprise specifically and the sensors associated with that and yes to to collect that data  centralize it and have it there for presumably both analysis and you know operational needs  the schreiber war games document with the images 12 pages 15 pages somewhere  in there yeah i'd say yeah 12 to 15 but probably more like yeah 12. and is that the only document  you ever saw where the term immaculate constellation was used until i wrote one yeah  we'll get into that but instead of like go through people will be so curious so what comes  on the fourth page talks through the pages just go ahead on the next episode of weaponized when  i was in usdi i read the transcripts of sean patrick uh briefing senator rubio senator warren  and senator gillibrand  on the results of his investigation in his congressionally tasked aero report you know i  read these transcripts once uh and immediately knew that yeah veiled threat no i i knew that  i was now something else i was in i had inside knowledge into the deception of our government  by elements of our intelligence community my blood ran cold at a specific point in that  transcript where mr rubio is disgustingly  uh the legacy program this was a subject of direct discussion with sean kirkpatrick in these meetings  and based on mr kirkpatrick's replies about as vague as they were but unable to escape the truth  of the legacy program mr rubio's response was well what the hell is the executive branch doing  have they been running this for 60 years without congressional oversight the process of grush  coming forward left awake on the inside too people were tracking that  weren't even involved but were able to see sort of the distortions on the inside  distortions of truth exactly and but also you know bureaucracies and offices behaving weirdly  um that was one of the moments that really uh started to convince me that this was  this was not um under under our government's control
