So why are we here? I think this talk, we want to kind of accomplish two aims. One is talking about how UFOs are real. They're real phenomena. They're a real thing. But I think that's somewhat passe and conventional at this point. Over 50% of the American population at this point probably believes in the existence of UFOs.  We're at Hereticon. So I think the real heresy here would be actually linking UFOs as a modern observable scientific phenomena with past religious phenomena. So angels and demons would be kind of the popular nomenclature of the past. Is what we're experiencing today what we've experienced in the past? And so is religion actually real?  You know, the Latin root of religion is religare, which means to relink. And it's our belief on this panel that through religion.  Through observing UFOs, we can relink ourselves with, you know, kind of a past epistemology that we've always had. And that modernity is actually somewhat of an aberration from that epistemology.  So I have two amazing guests to discuss this with me. First, I have Diana Walsh Pasulka. She is a classicist and religious studies professor who specializes in Catholic history.  She wrote a great book in 2014 called Heaven Can Wait about the Catholic conversation.  She wrote a great book on the concept of purgatory. And then very interestingly, she followed that up with two books on UFO phenomena as kind of a meta-religious modern phenomena.  In 2018, she wrote an amazing book called American Cosmic, which is like the modern ufology Bible. I highly recommend you read it. And in 2023, she wrote a great book called Encounters. And she in her own right is somewhat of a, you know, kind of a mystic and truth seeker. And so very honored to have her.  We also have Colonel Carl Nell on stage.  Thank you.  I'm very excited to have him. He's a very polymathic thinker. And it's always hard to present him because his CV is very long and impressive. But he worked at aerospace companies like Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman. He's commanded every level of the Army to brigade.  He helped set up Army Futures Command. So he ran a lot of tech modernization efforts for the Army. And probably most relevant for this talk, he was the Army representative for the UAP or Unidentified Anomalous Phenomenon.  Task Force, which basically was directed to look into UAP UFOs. I'll use those interchangeably in their existence and reality. And so, you know, he's privileged for privily to a lot of classified information. But here he'll be talking about the non classified information. I want to start with you, Carl, to, you know, allay audience, you know, how would you convince them that UFOs are real? Because this whole talk is kind of, you know, predicated on that fact.  Well, thank you, Jesse. It's a pleasure to be here. And great to be here with Diana and really excited about this event. So yeah, we actually looked into this area. And so probably privy to a lot of information that's not publicly available. So, you know, how can the rest of the folks out there maybe have some confidence that, you know, there's some reality to this subject. So there's sort of three lines of evidence that you can look at. There's the first principles, there's sort of testimonial from people that are in positions to know. And then there's the data.  So like, if we're going to kind of run through those from first principles, you know, the going in position is probably the laws of physics are the same here that they are everywhere else. And, and undoubtedly, there's some exceptions, but in general, that's pretty much accepted by everybody. And so if you look at how quickly life evolved on our planet, the argument that's usually made is that life is uncommon, and that faster than light travel is not possible. And both of these things really have no evidence for them.  It's the exact opposite. So for instance, their blue green algae fossilized in stromatolites from 3.5 billion years ago, and recent scholarship has indicated that life may have evolved even earlier 4.1 billion years ago. So the earth itself is 5 billion years old, the crust has not even cooled by 4.1 billion years ago. So there's evidence that life evolved on earth at the earliest possible time even earlier than would be reasonably suspected.  There's microbes that can live in outer space that we've determined are viable. And recently, as of maybe a month ago, people identified microbes that were in stasis in 2 billion year old terrestrial rock that were brought back to life. So in essence, life is either evolving very quickly or some sort of panspermia situations going on. That's what all the evidence sort of suggests. If you look at the sun, the sun is what's called a population one star. There's 20 billion population one stars in the sun.  The sun is like a relatively young population one star. There's stars that are like the sun that are 5 billion years older than the sun. So that's like a massive amount of time for other civilizations to potentially evolve on these other planets and just statistically. So then you look at like faster than light travel, like can they get here? You don't even need that assumption. But Miguel Alcabir, a Mexican postgraduate student, University of Mexico in 1994, solved Einstein's equations for an effective faster than light travel.  NASA's looked into this. There's there's no dispute that the solution is a valid solution. So it requires this thing called negative energy to work. Well, negative energy is a component of quantum mechanics. The Cosmere effect, which was known in the 60s and demonstrated in the 90s, is evidence for the for the existence of negative energy. The expansion of the universe, which we've recently determined is accelerating, is due to something called dark energy. Dark energy is negative energy. So we've got an effect on the universe.  So we've got an effective solution for Einstein's equations that requires negative energy. And we know negative energy exists. This isn't an engineering solution, but it is a theoretical solution. So it was it's very much disingenuous to suggest that life is uncommon and fast and light travel is possible. Both of those are false. So that's sort of the first principles argument once you kind of put that into the context of all the other evidence. So let's look at testimonial. Now, testimonial isn't hard scientific factual data, but then you've got to explain  why people such as Barack Obama, Donald Trump all say that UFOs are real. They're in a position to have been briefed on this. You can look at the Admiral of the Fleet, Lord Hill Norton of the United Kingdom, former Minister of Defense staff has basically said UFOs are real. You can look at Haim Eshed, the father of the Israeli space program that says non human intelligence is real. You can look at Paul Hellyer, the former  Minister of Defense for Canada, he said non human intelligence is real. You can look at Chris Mellon, who's the first Assistant Secretary of Defense for intelligence for the progenitor for the Undersecretary for Intel and Security, has come out and said UFOs are real. You can look at David Grush, who just testified last year, before the House Committee on  Oversight, to the effect that there is a government program looking at the UFOs because they're real. And he was accompanied by two naval aviators that said  they're real.  same thing. You can look at Lou Elizondo, who's a very famous UAP whistleblower. And there's many  more of these. So that's sort of like the testimonial evidence. In fact, you can look at  the legislation that was just submitted by Senator Schumer and Senator Rounds, as well as Senator  Rubio and Senator Gillibrand and several other of their colleagues last year that basically said,  we need to look into this. The Congress is not being told the truth. And there's evidence that  the government knows more than what they're saying about this topic. In fact, Senator Rounds and  Senator Schumer had a colloquy to discuss this very topic and intended to reintroduce that  legislation. And so then you can look at the data. We've got videos, what they call colloquially,  the floor, the gimbal, the go-fast video that show unidentified flying objects that the Pentagon has  asserted are not ours and are not our own. And so then you can look at the data. And so then you  may date from events that happened in 2004 and 2015. You can look at the experience of Gordon  Cooper, one of America's first Mercury 7 astronauts who chased UFOs in 1951 over West  Germany. And it testified before the United Nations in 1979 to that fact. You can look at  the incursions over the Northern U.S. ballistic missile warning system in the 70s, where radar  were picking up UFOs. And then you can look at in the 1960s, the readiness status change  of our ICBMs at Malmstrom Air Force Base, where missiles were taken offline. And then in the  Soviet Union, an analogous thing where missiles were brought online. And there are FOIA documents  and testimony to the reality of that. There's an agreement between the former Soviet Union and the  United States that's still in force, intending to reduce the threat of nuclear war, where there's a  stipulation that either side will be able to take off. And so then you can look at the data. And so  you can see that the one side will notify the other if UFOs impact their missile early warning  systems. So people say, well, if this is real, why don't they just land on the White House lawn?  Well, in 1952, the radar visual sightings over Washington, D.C. for two weekends, including  air-to-air intercepts that precipitated the largest press conference since World War II up to  that time. And so people say, well, okay, why don't we just land in the middle of the day?  And that's happened in 1994.  And that's happened in 1964 in Rua Zimbabwe, where craft landed and beings presented themselves to  elementary school-aged children in the middle of the day. That almost similar, identical incident  happened in 1966 in West Hall, Australia. There's a concerted correlation between UFO or UAP activity  in nuclear sites. The PANTEC site in Texas and the Hanford Plutonium Production Facility have  numerous UFO sites. And so people say, well, why don't we just land in the middle of the day?  Well, that's because there's no sightings and correlations. And in fact, this extends to  overseas sites. Even the Fukushima incident had correlations. So looking at the evidence,  both from the standpoint of first principles, from the standpoint of people who would know,  and from factual information, it's indisputable that this is a real phenomenon.  And when it comes to UFOs, I think there's this kind of misnomer that this all started  in the 40s. It started with the advent of our nuclear program. Diana, you've done some  amazing work about how this might comport with things that we've observed in our religious  tradition and in history in the past.  Okay. Yeah, sure. So first I want to explain a little bit about what we do in my field,  which is called religious studies. Religious studies is a discipline that is academic,  so I'm not going to, we don't advocate for religion. We're not ministers or theologians.  We're academics. We use archeology, history, you know, academic disciplines in order to look at  the biological effects of basically religion. Most of the people in the world are religious,  more than 80, usually 83, about 83 to 85% of the world affiliate with some religions.  So it's actually important to study religion. I'm not going to advocate for belief in UFOs.  I'm going to tell you my story about how I got into this, because I never thought about  UFOs. In fact, until three years ago, I had not seen Close Encounters of the Third Kind,  and what a great movie that is. Diana, thank you.  way so um so yeah so i'm not going to advocate for belief in ufos but what i am going to do  is tell you about my entrance into this field which has ramped up considerably since i started  in 2012. so in 2012 i was writing a book called heaven can wait about what in my field we call  ascent narratives all cultures have their own forms of this genre of oral tradition or literature  and what an ascent narrative is is basically a person who is either touring uh the afterlife like  dante touring hell purgatory and then heaven a pre-christian ascent narrative would be the  allegory of the cave uh in plato's republic where a person thinks that reality are these shadows on  the wall and ascends out of the cave and recognizes that wow there's another reality so this is what i  was doing i was looking at ascent narratives in the catholic history and  christian history and i utilized um archives so archives are i've been to the vatican and looked at  their various archives they have many over 53 miles of shelving of old documents and these are  the kinds of things you see in archives material culture codexes you know things like this  philadelphia has a wonderful archive and so i looked at archives and i was looking for data about  purgatory which i found but i also found  report  reports of aerial phenomena by catholic people from europe and canada and the united states  from 1200 to 1800 and i thought they were these were interesting because a lot of times when  catholic european catholics say saw something in the sky they would have a moment of confusion  what is this um you know what are the things they would see in the sky so they would see  discs uh light orbs uh sometimes they would see things they thought were flying houses  okay the flying house of laredo um so these you know they would see these aerial phenomena  and i took notes because i'm a researcher and that's what i do i don't leave data out  so i had this long list of these sightings sometimes they would interpret them as souls  from purgatory that needed to be prayed away but they they saw these things and i thought  that was interesting but ufos never crossed my mind so i kept a long a log of these sightings  so i showed a friend of mine and said what do you think of these reports  And immediately he looked at them and said, they remind me of a Steven Spielberg movie.  They look like UFOs.  And I thought he was silly.  Okay.  I thought he was silly.  I didn't think about it again until I started to publish my information about these events  and reports, what now I call angel contact events generally is how I refer to them.  I started to get inquiries from people at aerospace companies and not just one, I got  a lot and I was thinking that this was strange because this has never happened to me before  when I was writing about Catholic history, but it was this specific thing, which was  the angel reports and they wanted my data and they were very interested in certain things.  They wanted to know what did the people describe seeing?  Did the people describe light?  What was the color of the light?  What did the objects look like?  And most interesting.  To me, did the people report injuries?  Okay.  Did the people report injuries?  Well, yes, actually they did.  But so they wanted my data.  I happened to meet one of these people.  This was quite an impressive person is I call him pseudonymously in the book that I wrote  about this Tyler and he had amazing credentials.  He worked for our space program.  He was the government liaison to Elon Musk for certain missions.  And he said that he was a great person.  He said that they had acquired debris from UFO crash sites and that he was reverse engineering  these and they were creating this technology kind of game-changing technology.  That was in 2016 that I went with, with people that I had to have as pseudonyms.  Okay.  So now Gary Nolan has come out and that's actually a relief to me that he's come out as himself.  And the reason why we went was because Tyler, who's still a pseudonym for a  person who is a mission controller and works in the space force.  So, whereas I was looking at these as maybe metaphoric or historical, you know, not  necessarily, well, not at all real.  That's not what we do in my field.  We're not looking at these as real things.  All of these very intelligent credentialed, highly placed people, scientists were looking  at these as if they were real.  And so that was shocking to me.  Okay.  Um, I then looked back at my tradition at the Catholic tradition.  And I looked at some of the most iconic, um, angel contact events, and I began to understand  them in a different way.  And one that you might know about is the, um, the stigmata.  So the stigmata happened to St.  Francis of Assisi, arguably the most famous saint of the Catholic church.  Uh, you, even though you may not be Catholic, you've seen statues of him.  If you've gone into gardens, you'll see him.  He has, you know, usually a bird on his shoulder or something like that.  So.  So a very charismatic person living in the 1200s in Europe.  And, um, he had an experience of, thankfully they have one of these here of this seraphim.  So if you'll see over here in the icon of this event is a seraphim, which I thought was  really, it actually convinced me to come.  I was like, yeah, I'll come and I'll talk about what I've studied and you know, what I know about.  Um, so the seraphim, um, is, uh, is this angel and it doesn't look like the angels that we  typically know about.  And, um, well, if you look at the primary source material of these contact events, it looks like that.  And it generally has an eye in the middle of it and it doesn't injure.  I looked at the primary source material for St.  Francis of Assisi.  And what I found was that when he had this contact with this thing that he described as a seraphim, it came down, there was light.  It had an eye and there are competing primary source reports, but the best.  Report shows that brother Leo, who's about 15, he's watching and he sees that this is how he describes it.  That this thing dealt harshly with Francis.  Afterwards, Francis was injured and the tradition determines that these injuries are called the wounds of Christ.  What happened was that this was a sh a very hush hush situation for Francis and Leo.  And when they went back to the convent, um, that he tried, uh, as best as he could.  could to make francis comfortable because he was injured and they didn't tell anybody okay so it  was completely quiet um it was a stigma okay it was literally a stigma and so um he eventually  died most likely from these wounds and what's so amazing about that story the burns on on  saint francis of assisi's hands really comport one-to-one with what the cia is now studying  as far as people who've encountered ufos so they work with gary nolan who's a microbiologist nobel  nominee at stanford who has actually has a foundation dedicated to this and the cia came  knocking at his door and they're like we have this files of people who've had all these anomalous  experiences and they really comport with you know it's like he had you know electromagnetic  radiation they just didn't really have the words to describe it but in using the term stigmata and  stigma uh we bring up this idea of non-disclosure this idea that  the power structures kind of institutionally gate reality from us so is that happening in  the modern ufo context as well carl yeah thanks for that question so yeah exactly so there's sort  of six principles or reasons for non-disclosure of this information from a government standpoint  the first being national security like you don't want the adversary to know what you know and  and uh and so on and then you know the second reason is sort of lack of a plan this is  so profound and impactful uh and as peter till sort of alluded you know there may be two reasons  technology with unknown ramification and uh you know if you let that out there could have  significantly a detrimental effect so you've got this lack of a plan issue you've got this  potential for societal disruption like the ontological shock that will come from a  realization of you know angels and aliens you've got the potential for a covert agreement where  people are benefiting from the status quo uh that is non-public the potential for misdeeds having  occurred and the desire to cover up misdeeds and the potential just organizational intransigence  and the lack of a priority that you expect of any type of bureaucracy and so this isn't like  necessarily theoretical right you can look at historical documents 1953 there's declassified  documents there's a panel called the robertson panel at the cia that basically said the government  decides to debunk this topic to misdirect the public and to actually infiltrate uh the  organizations that existed at the time the public organizations that were looking into this this is  absolutely  the most important thing that we've got to do is to try and get this back nobody disputes this and  the documents are available in uh people perhaps heard of project blue book this uh in dozen year  study looking at ufos by the u.s air force air force wanted to get out of this job they  commissioned a study from the university of colorado ed condon led the studies manhattan  project alum he wrote the conclusion of the study before the study was complete bragged about it a  lot of the scientists on the study defected publicly from the study the study got publicized  and published the content of the study is uh at odds with the conclusions but the air force  canceled project bluewick anyway so this really leads to uh what i think are sort of four heresies  that maybe we'd like to talk about in the context of the hereticon the first being that non-disclosure  of uncomfortable aspects of reality is a universal constant across cultures and across time  and the second piece as diana alluded is that there's a hierarchy of being with non-human  beings and there's a hierarchy of being with non-human beings and so i think that's a really  important point that's being included in that cosmism which diane is an expert at is at the  root of both the russian and the u.s space program and consciousness is a component not only of  metaphysics but of physics itself i actually want to get into cosmism so this idea that i mean you  uh met a uh you know somebody deep in the space program who was a nuts and bolts you know  contributor to our space program we think of our space program as you know elon musk is the tip of  the spear all we have is sort of chemical combustion um but you're speaking to this  guy who in your book you write about pseudonymously named tyler who uh is engaging in sort of  like consciousness protocols and that's somehow essential to his work and then you go back and  you do research about the early american and russian space programs and how you know a lot  of these people think that they're in touch with angelic and in certain cases demonic beings do you  want to talk about that yeah sure so um so cosmism what's that so there are uh when this when this  happened to me in 2012 um i started to get my bearings after you know this recognition that  people in aerospace in some of these companies were actually doing this work and what this  meant um i was shocked i saw my own tradition from a different lens and i decided to go back  and to look at the space programs the viable ones that would be the american space program  ours and the russian space program and so i started to do the preliminary you know work that  a person does when they're looking at this is you know what were their belief systems um the ones  that inspired these men in the early 20th century late 19th century early 20th century what inspired  them to create rocket technologies that were successful and actually got us off the planet  so if you go to the russian cosmos tradition which is a similar tradition you know where they believe  in you know like  constantine chikovsky believed in nhI and that he was you know he believed in this  and he wrote books about it and he's the father of russian rocketry they're christian they have  kind of a christian overlay to this or framework and so i saw this as the beginning of the russian  space program and i began to do the same work with our space program in fact i found it was  jack parsons now of course if anybody knows about jack parsons the patterns here match  in terms of he believed that he was in contact  Jack Parsons is the father of our space program, by the way.  Super interesting guy.  Work with Alistair Crowley.  So obviously he's not giving his NHI a Christian veneer, but I wouldn't say he's calling it  demonic though.  Like, sorry.  That's my interpretation.  Yeah, yeah.  A lot of people say, oh, he was, you know, demonic, but he didn't view what he was doing  as demonic.  He actually viewed what he was doing as good.  He thought that he was working for the common task of humans, of getting us into the space.  So this would be the Russian and the American, in fact, I named my book American Cosmic because  I was impressed that we hadn't talked about it.  And I thought that somebody should.  Modernity is an aberration that we think man is apex consciousness.  That is sort of a detour when it comes to the epistemology of mankind across thousands  of years.  And in fact.  Uh, many religious scholars in the past have gone so far as to classify a lot of the beings,  you know, between us and God.  And so St.  Thomas Aquinas had his angel hierarchies.  Uh, Iamblichus, who's a Syrian Neoplatonist also had similar angel hierarchies and they  literally have taxonomies and categorizations for these angels.  They describe them.  They describe some of the effects of people that observe them.  Some, in some cases it's literally, we'll say like irradiated light.  So it sounds like kind of electromagnetic, you know, damage or whatever.  So Carl, do we have any.  Kind of modern scientific frameworks for how we should think about NHI or kind of,  you know, uh, them being higher on the kind of consciousness or evolution chain.  Yeah.  So the, uh, the scale that's often used is what's called the Kardashev scale.  Uh, Nikolai Kardashev, uh, uh, Russian astronomer back in 1964, sort of, uh,  proposed during the age where optical astronomy was becoming popular and radio  astronomy is coming on to identify civilizations based on the ability of.  Uh,  then to access the energy of entire star.  So you could build this thing called a Dyson sphere around a sun.  And so that would blot out the visible light, but there'd be a big IR signature.  And if, you know, um, astronomers could detect this, then they'd detect the civilization.  So he called that a type two civilization.  And then by extension, there's a type three civilization that controls, you know, all  the energy output of a galaxy, let's say, and a type one civilization, maybe a little  bit more advanced from our own that's, uh, basically controlling the whole planet.  So this is the Kardashev scale.  You know, Carl Sagan talks about this, Neil deGrasse Tyson, uh, Michio Kaku.  It's, it's like a popular thing.  I would argue though, that the scales it's, it's really not very instructive to look at  like UFOs and UAP because total civilization energy usage is like an unknowable thing  based on, um, observations of potential craft or potential recovered material or  biologics or what have you.  So there's a better model out there, uh, that I would recommend, which is the  universal civilization development model.  And it goes off of.  Like what they have, what they know and who they are.  And so what they have would be more about energy density than the  magnitude of energy usage.  So energy density, like if I've got a certain energy density, I get fire.  I got a greater energy density over longer time.  I can smelt metal.  Ultimately I can do nuclear reactions.  Maybe I can warp space and time.  Maybe I can even impact the laws of physics.  So that's the physics of energy.  Jacques Vallee has talked about this idea of physics of information.  So how much about the nature of reality does this civilization?  Perhaps know how much complexity can their man, can they manage?  What's the time constant for their thought process?  How many parallel paths can they contemplate as single times?  This idea of consciousness comes into play.  So this, you know, almost a physics of information now is this other dimension.  And then the third dimension is, um, the ecological evolutionary dimension.  What is the chemical basis for, for this life form?  Where are they on the evolutionary path?  Maybe not just a hundred years ahead of us, maybe a million years ahead.  What's, what's it look like for a life form to be a billion years ahead of us?  What's their relationship with their environment?  Or is it omnivorous?  Is it derived from omnivorous stock, herbivore stock, uh, et cetera.  So all these things create a phase space perhaps that would be populated by range  of beings and the, and the distance in this phase space, you know, we might call it  the Hamming distance by analogy with electromagnetic signal processing might  dictate the likelihood of a competition symbiotic or competitive relationship  based on.  Uh, the likely hierarchies that undoubtedly exist.  Diana, we're talking about hierarchy of being and man, not being the apex of  consciousness.  And then we're also talking about, uh, us, you know, scientists and engineers at the  top of our space program using consciousness protocols.  Um, if any of this stuff is true, I mean, I, I feel like a lot of people in the  audience probably didn't come and walk into this room, believing these things.  Are we in Plato's cave?  Are we in this sort of epistemic cave?  And if we are, how do we get out?  Yes, that's a great question.  So, um, okay, first off, I don't, I don't think I'm going to reference Peter's talk.  Okay.  Because I thought it was really a great segue into some of the things that we  were going to talk about, you know, we're, we're, we're told that, um, there's  nothing worse than Armageddon, but perhaps there is, perhaps we should fear the  antichrist, perhaps we should fear the one world totalitarian state, uh, more  than Armageddon.  And so I would say that the apocalypse.  Apocalypse is structural, uh, so for anyone in my field, um, we know that the  apocalypse is always happening.  Okay.  There's always an apocalypse.  So the early Christians who were Jewish actually did have their apocalypse.  Uh, you know, the, the Romans destroyed their temple in 70.  That was an apocalypse that those very specifically Jewish Christians were,  were knowing was going to happen.  It happened, but we go on, things go on.  Okay.  So what is it then?  So the idea.  That, um, that there is an out or that, you know, there's, there's a solution to  the apocalypse.  Plato suggests that, uh, it's, it's in the allegory of the cave.  So he never answers the question, but he gives this allegory and what it is, is  basically a conversation.  He calls it the dialectic.  And he says that, um, what you can do is you can have this conversation.  So there's a sense of community baked in here, but it's a, it's more than just a  conversation.  It's a conversation about.  Justice.  It's a conversation about goodness.  So you're saying kind of contemplation of virtue literally allows you to ascend.  Out of this world in some way, in some sort of metaphysical way.  I'm not sure.  I do believe that's what he's saying.  And he's, he's basically saying that there is a sort of conversation that you can have,  probably not a text message.  Right.  And, um, and that is a, it's a, that's what he presents as the out.  And I think if there's a third option, it's going to be that.  So with Plato, Diana is sort of talking about maybe a proto architecture to religion.  And Carl, we've had kind of offline conversations where you've said to me that maybe the esoteric  version of a lot of the world's religions are actually sort of normalizable.  They actually contain a lot of similarities when it comes to kind of encounters with non-human  intelligence.  Do you want to talk about that?  Yeah, well, I think that's actually right.  So most of these sort of the Gnostic tradition, the, uh, Sufi tradition, Islam.  Uh, the Kabbalah in, uh, Judaism and even, uh, non-dualist Vedanta all talk about this sort of inward looking  initiatic experience where you're, you know, you're transcending this reality and connecting with a deeper reality.  So there's, there's actually an interesting, um, study that was done the oldest, uh, large corpus, like significant  corpus of religious texts, like in the world, anywhere of any tradition, any culture are the pyramid texts like fifth dynasty, uh,  Egypt, something like, you know, 2,500 BC.  And so the, uh, Egyptological interpretation of the pyramid text is a funerary, but there's a counter countervailing scholarship that says, well, actually it's like really  initiatory when Egyptology was created, it moved away from mysticism and went totally rationalist.  And so the ancient Greeks and the ancient Romans, anybody that actually knew Egyptian civilization firsthand knew that they were very esoteric.  And so in Egyptian scholarship has moved away from that and made the Egyptians extremely rationalist and very much funeral ritual based.  Once you put it, the initiatic experience into the pyramid texts based on something called the said festival, which is essentially a kingship ritual that's known to exist.  Then the, the, the pyramid and the pyramid texts become an initiatic engine that, um, that, uh, the living might actually embark upon.  And this is interesting because then it, it creates.  Direct connective tissue between the hermetic tradition and the Gnostic tradition that came out of late period, Egypt, and then influenced, um, both classical antiquity and then early Christian, um, theology.  So you've got essentially a, a linear line that can now be traced potentially to the earliest tradition in an esoteric sense.  There's a great Meister Eckhart quote, uh, theologians may quarrel, but mystics all speak the same language.  So I think it speaks to that sort of pre-archa and there's actually a story.  I think of Jewish tradition.  I think of, uh, Jewish Kabbalists meeting with the Dalai Lama and they're like talking about these non-human intelligences and the colors associated with them.  And they're just kind of laughing about how kind of in agreement they are worldview wise.  I want to stick with you, Carl, because we are in a room full of entrepreneurs and people in venture capital.  And so they might be thinking, okay, this, all this stuff might be real, but I don't really see it.  And it's kind of ephemeral and like, what does this have to do with me?  Does any of this investable, uh, can we turn this into a company?  Right.  Carl, do you want to.  Well, right.  Well, I might hit that ball right back at you because, uh, Jesse's done a number of podcasts looking into, Taylor towns and Brown and some other very interesting, uh, like heretical technologies.  So I'd invite people, uh, unsolicited plug to check out some of Jesse's podcasts.  Uh, but I would also submit to you, if you sort of look at the arc of technological development, we're getting to the point that, uh, Feynman had talked about in the early sixties about there's room at the bottom, which is by which he meant.  Like we're getting at the level where we can engineer at the molecular level, at the nature that engine that, that nature operates.  And so these disciplines that, uh, originally appeared to be disparate, like information science, material science, the semiconductor fab, uh, genomics, et cetera, all look pretty much the same, uh, once you're able to engineer at the molecular level.  So information and materials start to merge.  You can come up with programmable matter, perhaps self-healing structures, self-repairing structures.  You're, you're starting to move into that von Neumann machine, uh, level.  So I would suggest, you know, looking at that area, then we alluded earlier to this thing called the Cosmere effect, the Cosmere effect.  You put two parallel plates that are conducting very close together, and you would expect classically nothing would happen, but what actually ends up happening is was predicted and measured is that there's negative energy states that are, uh, created in between the plates.  In other words, there's certain quantum fluctuations that are not supportable.  Between those plates.  And there's a pressure that's created between, uh, from the pressure outside the plates versus inside and the plates compress.  So basically that's extracting energy out of the vacuum.  Like that's like free energy, like that's not disputable.  That's like proven fact.  So unfortunately it's not, uh, reciprocal.  Nobody's figured out how to make a reciprocating machine.  You got to reset the plates to get the energy out.  So that is something that's potentially scalable.  I mean, it could be a one-shot battery, uh, to a battery perhaps, uh, but it'd be a one-shot battery if somebody can figure out a way to make that scalable, that would be extremely beneficial.  So, so those are a couple, uh, avenues, but just to sort of recap, like the heresies, right?  So non-disclosure is the universal constant, uh, of society.  This idea of hierarchy of being, cosmism, you know, the esoteric aspect of, um, reality being at the basis of the space program.  And consciousness playing a role in both physics and metaphysics.  Where our technology is getting to the point where we can perhaps develop a physical basis for consciousness and the developed technologies out of consciousness.  Which, oh, by the way, any more advanced civilizations probably already gotten to should open, uh, I think our eyes collectively that there's sort of groupthink going on.  And opportunities that are right in front of our face are being missed, uh, because, uh, we're not incorporating these other aspects of reality.  So in that sense, uh, agnosticism is not like.  An optional worldview.  Well, Carl, I'll take that plug to the bank.  I really appreciate it.  Um, I want to wrap up with you, Diana.  Peter Thiel was on, uh, uh, Joe Rogan a month ago and he was asked about alien, like half the conversation was about aliens and he cited your work, which was fascinating.  Uh, and he said that, uh, aliens, uh, are not only probably angels and demons, they have to be angels and demons because of the dual use nature of tech and the forcing function nature of tech.  And so the position.  The Zolka literal thing I'd, I'd come to is the aliens.  It's not that they might be demons or angels.  They must be demons or angels.  If you have faster than light travel and both of those seem pretty crazy to me.  And so if you have warp drive technology as a deliver, as a delivery mechanism for a payload, like a nuclear weapon, that's, you can't defend against that.  And I find it really interesting.  You talk about St.  Francis of Assisi seeing what was probably a craft or an orb.  Uh, Sarah.  And, um, the last thing he writes in his diary is the Greek letter tau, which, uh, means conversion.  Yeah.  And so it was like this forcing function conversion.  And so in the world in which, you know, uh, aliens, which are being, you know, at least in the form of UFOs seen at record levels now, statistically, or, you know, as far as data, the data goes, um, is the veil falling, you know, the, the, the, the word apocalypse and its original Greek means the unveiling.  Are we seeing these things at a greater preponderance because we're living in the apocalypse?  And what does that mean as far as how we should live our own lives?  Yeah.  Do you think we're living in a apocalypse?  I think that there is an unveiling going on and I think this is a great, amazing time.  So yes, I think so.  All right.  Thank you guys.  Yeah.  Thank you, Jesse.  I'm here with Diana Walsh-Basilka.  Uh, we just had an amazing talk with Colonel Carl Nell.  And it's funny in our first conversation, you brought up this concept of emergence.  Yeah.  And this idea that you would get, uh, kind of interdisciplinary intersections between  experts in various fields, which the UFO phenomenon kind of brings together because you can go  at it with so many angles.  And I thought it was a really great conversation between a guy who in a kind of a nuts and  bolts, you know, very hard headed fashion, look through a bunch of classified material  came out of that experience on the UAP task force saying, I think UFOs are real and trying  to drive a lot of this forward through legislature.  And, and other means.  And then a religious studies professor who had no interest in UFOs and was just objectively  kind of looking at religious as a phenomena and not even looking at it as some, you know,  underlying metaphysical truth bumping into the UFO, uh, phenomena.  So what did you think about that talk?  I'm really impressed with his knowledge.  So not only is he excellent at nuts and bolts and looking at, you know, the technical aspects  of UAP UFOs, but he knows the whole history.  He knows the history of religions back to Egyptology, and he's able to, in a sense,  do what I do and what Jacques Vallee did, right.  Which was look at the historical record and find evidence of NHI, um, UAP, you know, whatever  you want to say about it, um, angels as they have been termed.  So yeah, I had a really great time talking with him and I think that, that, um, you also  added a lot to it because you know,  both sides.  Well, do what I can, I, I appreciate both of you, uh, gracing us with your presence  and before our conversation, uh, Peter Thiel, who's kind of, you know, helping host this  event, did a really interesting talk on the Antichrist.  So he's been focusing on the Antichrist and he's been talking about it as, um, you  know, in history, you know, how has the Antichrist been represented?  When we think about the Antichrist, um, how best to conceive?  Well, that is to talk about it a lot and basically to, you know, push this, this idea that, uh,  there's an apocalypse.  Okay.  And that we are, you know, we need to save, save ourselves and do good.  Okay.  And of course, everybody's going to agree with that.  And that's a great veneer.  And then he reminds, he reminded the audience that that's of course how the Antichrist presents  as the one that is, you know, giving the solution.  Yeah.  And so I thought that was really interesting.  What'd you think about that?  I thought so too.  He cites Thessalonians peace and safety being the slogan of the Antichrist.  I think you look at a lot of evil that's done in today's world without getting too specific,  depending on which side of the aisle you're on, but it's on, it's on both sides.  And um, I think you have a lot of today's evil is couched in this veneer of kind of  utilitarian, effective altruism world is my sandbox.  I'm going to, you know, uh, you know, I'm going to, you know, I'm going to, you know,  rearrange the figures, you know, on, on a global scale and like make things sort of  work out.  And that is sort of a form of evil.  It's also outward looking, so it's never inward looking like, am I doing bad or am I harming  people?  You know?  And you met Renee Girard.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I love his theories.  I'm a Girardian too.  And Girard always says, you know, to even spot a scapegoat, you need a third party witness  because nobody thinks that they're doing the scapegoating.  And in fact, we're doing scapegoating.  We're doing scapegoating all day long.  And the, the history of humanity is the history of human violence and that all of us have  sort of, you know, greedy, greedy impulses.  And there's obviously violence up until, you know, murder and large scale war and stuff,  but we do small violence to one another all the time through mimetic desires and jealousy  and that sort of thing.  And we have to look inward.  Yeah.  That's right.  So, um, his professor was Renee Girard and I was at Berkeley at the time at the Jesuit  school of theology.  And, and Peter was at Stanford.  And so while he was taking these classes, I was actually driving to Renee Girard's colloquiums  to listen to him.  And I, so I had been exposed to his theories when I was an undergraduate at the university  of California in Davis and his book violence in the sacred kind of broke through and really  destabilized a lot of different disciplines.  And a lot of people didn't like it because it was such a giant theory of everything,  right?  Like a theory of evil, right?  And, and he, Renee Girard is a, was a Catholic, right?  And he did attend, I believe it was Latin mass.  And so the Jesuits that I was taking courses from, they didn't want to go themselves because  there was something kind of heretical about Renee Girard because it was no, they, they  said that there wasn't anything really transcendent about Christ for Renee Girard, that he looked  at evil as anthrop, like an anthropology.  Like, you know, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,  you know, that we were, you know, we, there was no transcendent or metaphysical evil that  he spoke of.  I think what's so heretical about Girard is, and why he was so sort of not accepted  both by religious scholars or by, you know, evolutionary biologists in his time is because  he has this sort of theory of everything, you know, this kind of proto architecture  like to religion.  And so that's like real heresy.  Yes, it absolutely is.  Right.  And we talked about that earlier in the context of Plato, maybe another person who has this  kind of proto architecture of religion.  Yeah.  Yeah.  We were talking, you know, off camera before this, you were saying, you know, you interpret  Plato maybe slightly differently than a lot of kind of quote unquote philosophers or scholars.  That's right.  Yeah.  Yeah.  So of course I, I read Plato, you know, early on as an undergraduate and again, as a graduate  student, but I really didn't start actually reading Plato until I encountered the people  who believed in UFOs.  And I saw the, the ways in which UFOs have.  Been, you know, concealed by our government within this environment where I witnessed  harassment firsthand, saw people who were the quote unquote whistleblowers being harassed.  And, you know, it's not pretty, it's terrible.  And I was depressed.  So I thought, you know, how do I make sense of this?  And so Plato's Republic kept coming back into my head.  And Plato, by the way, he asked the question, can there be a just society and why he asks  this?  And the answer to this is because he's pretty horrified by what happened to his mentor.  His mentor was killed by his government, which was Athens and his, and Socrates was given  it out, but he didn't take it.  Instead.  He said, I live by the laws of Athens and I'll die by them.  And this is just, this is right.  Well, Plato didn't buy that.  It seems he has a dialogue between Socrates and Glaucon.  And they asked the question, can we have a just government?  And they go through all these ridiculous scenarios.  He's saying that, no, it doesn't look like.  We can figure out how to have a just government.  How do we do it?  Well, then he performs it.  He does a performative thing at the end of the Republic.  And so what does he give us?  He gives us two things that we call allegories or metaphors.  One is the allegory of the cave.  People are, you know, see shadows on the wall and they think that this, and people are showing  them these shadows, by the way.  So we tend not to know, we tend to discount that there are other people that are like,  or things.  There are other beings that are showing us these shadows and we are thinking that they're  reality.  And somehow we get out and we ascend out of the cave and we recognize that, wow, most  people are completely blinded by this.  Okay.  So how, how does this work then?  And so then he'd like throws in basically the first recorded or one of the first recorded  NDEs, which is the myth of Ur, which is about the soldier who dies in battle and has a near  death experience and sees that people actually, you know, live again.  They're immortal.  They have some kind of soul.  And so he tells this story.  Well, those are two very strange ways to end this book about the just society.  And so when I'd asked my professors, you know, what does this mean?  Cause I went back to them and I even asked my friends who are philosophers, so what do  you think about this?  Oh, it's just a metaphor.  It's just an allegory.  Well, I don't think it is.  So there, so what's then the takeaway?  The takeaway is a performative thing.  It's nothing that you can say, Jesse, do this and it'll be all right.  No.  You have to actually do it.  What is it?  Well, it's basically creating a community of people like the other person.  So you know, it's called the dialectic and it's a form, it's a mystical conversation  basically, which is really hard for us to wrap our brains around.  What does it even mean to have a mystical conversation?  I think that if people are watching this talk, they've had a mystical conversation, right?  And you have too.  It's like, think of those times.  When you met that person who's like your best friend and every time you saw them, the energy  would change, you know, and you'd have such an amazing talk.  That's what he's talking about.  That kind of community, community based on that.  Because wouldn't you die for that person?  You know, wouldn't you do those things that are noble before that friendship?  Yeah.  Okay.  So that's the kind of thing that he's giving us.  That's amazing.  Well, yeah.  And I think a lot of Plato readers.  Yeah.  Think of him as fully allegorical and they don't think there's some metaphysical  architecture that he's actually talking about.  Like the myth of error, I think is a great example.  So the cave is another example, but in the case of the myth of error, he's talking about  this myth where you have anamnesis, you have this idea that there's this primordial soul  self that kind of has knowledge of all of your incarnations and then you cross the river  of forgetfulness into, you know, an incarnation.  Yeah.  Where you forget your former self.  And maybe through kind of a near death experience or a mystery ritual, which by the way, Plato,  we probably now know, went through the Eleusinian mystery rituals himself.  That's right.  And so he probably believed this, like to all the people that think it's just an allegory,  you know, then you experience noesis, you regain knowledge of your kind of immortal  soul.  Do you think that literal reading of Plato is an important kind of overlay that is missing  in today's reading?  I think that a lot, so, you know, I went through graduate school and of course any  kind of literalist reading of any of these texts is abhorred.  So people are going to say, no, you can't read it literally like that.  And I know.  Okay.  Okay.  So yeah.  Did he really mean it this way?  Well, not necessarily literally there's a cave, you know, but he meant it in a very  real sense.  And that's what I'm trying to get at here.  And and yes, there's a, you know.  This goes against the grain of, of both liberal and conservative readings of Plato, right?  It's a completely mystical reading here.  It goes beyond even, you know, some people read it as this is the subjectivity of, you  know, human subjectivity.  It goes beyond that because it poses something other than the human itself or himself or  herself.  So, so yeah.  So another thing too, is that the early Christians actually utilize this text.  So in, you know, we've found now in the 1940s, we found a lot of libraries of the early  Christians and we got an insight into what, you know, influenced them.  Well, the allegory of the cave and Plato's Republic influenced them, you know, so they  found something very transcendent, transcendent and very Jesus like, right.  And these texts.  So it's a lineage you see.  I didn't know that.  Yeah.  Wow.  What's, are there examples of kind of connections between early Christianity and I guess Martin  Luther King, I think wrote an essay about the pagan continuity hypothesis.  And so I, you know, there's this idea that even the last supper might have been kind  of a mystery ritual of sorts.  Elaine Pagels also writes about that.  That's right.  So we're learning.  So a lot of people think that Christianity is set and it doesn't change.  Right.  Well, archeology is showing us a material culture is showing us so many things that  we are learning about the early Christians.  And also I would suggest that the Greek Orthodox church really does actually know about this  connection between Socrates and the Greeks, you know, the Greek Socratic philosophers basically,  and this lineage that goes directly into Christianity, early Christianity, it's a Hellenized Judaism.  Right.  So it's a Judaism that's completely infused with Greek thought.  Like you look at the apostle Paul, all of the Greek.  Um, all of the scriptures of Christianity are Greek are written in Greek.  Okay.  So, so yes, this, this makes sense.  Wasn't Paul supposedly, according to some scholars, kind of a Kabbalist too.  Like he was, uh, in the Merkabah kind of, um, you know, Ezekiel tradition.  It looks like it, I mean, you know, I'm not a new Testament scholar, so I don't want to  go out on a limb and say for sure, you know, that was, but yeah, if you look at his, you  know, his conversion, it looks similar to Merkabah, you know, um, you know, um, you  know, and I do have friends who are new Testament scholars and they won't come, they don't feel  comfortable coming out and saying these things, but they'll tell me in secret.  They'll say, yeah, yeah.  You know, Jesus too, by the way.  Yeah.  And I'm like, really, why don't you write a book about that?  No.  He goes up on a cloud.  That's right.  That's right.  Yeah.  It's, it's amazing how much some of these kind of, uh, esoteric religious practices  actually comport.  Like if you look at the, uh, heck alone, the palaces of, you know, Jewish Kabbalism or  whatever.  The palace is well in Egypt, you had the, uh, REIT, you know, the S the seven, and then,  you know, in Rosicrucianism, you know, he goes up through seven levels and, you know,  he, he has to leave a garment behind on each level at each level.  You always encounter kind of, uh, you know, these different beings, um, you know, some  are good, some are bad, but they sort of, you know, are all testing you.  That's right.  It's very fascinating.  So we're talking about this tradition, this Merkabah tradition that seemingly talks  about a, a form of community.  If not a government, a form of community, ecclesia, right?  That's the, the early church Greek term for the community, right?  That's based on these connections with Merkabah Seraphim, what have you, these kinds of, uh,  knowledge bearers, messengers of God, right?  And so how does that, how would that look today?  That's a great question.  I don't know.  How, how would it look today?  Diana?  Well, I think that, I think that we're seeing it now.  I think we're seeing the very beginnings of this type of recognition that they're, you  know, with UFOs.  Yeah.  That's what I think is going on.  Yeah.  And there's, you know, this recognition that we're not alone.  Okay.  And I mean, that was the premise for a lot of those schools was that we're not alone,  but you have to get right with these things.  Yeah.  Okay.  So that's what, that's the whole idea was they were looking inward, so they weren't  looking outward.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yes.  Yeah.  Because, you know, think about his conversion.  It was, he was Saul, and he was living a life of violence of all things, right?  He was very violent.  Now, why he was violent?  I don't know, but he was persecuting and wanting Christians to die.  And then he has this Merkaba situation that he seemingly didn't cultivate, right?  It happened just spontaneously to him it seems, you know, at least from his position.  He didn't call it into his life.  And then it changes him.  he changes his name and then he works for these communities he gives his life to the formation  of these communities so how should one an average person sort of conceptualize this stuff because  you know it seems like if you read like william james there's kind of an outer ring of religious  people that don't truly believe in the metaphysical kind of architecture underneath  the religion they just kind of show up to church or synagogue or mosque and they kind of pray and  they do the daily rituals maybe it's this pascal's wager for them where it's this like  hyper rational if i do this thing maybe there's an afterlife and then you have these mystics that  sort of go straight at the truth but that seems kind of dangerous from like a you know institutional  power structure perspective like often these mystics are misinterpreted or clamped down on by  human power structures and then even in a more primordial sense or whatever there's the parable  of the four rabbis who all try to go up and down and do their own thing and then they're kind of  into the heavens and like you know one goes mad to die and like i might be watching this but like one  one makes it right and so it's this like extremely straight and narrow treacherous path yes yeah yeah  yeah it is so like why should anybody take that no i totally agree i'm in agreement with that yeah  but when students do come through my classes you know i teach basic you know survey of religions  you know kind of thing and when we were in the christianity section i'm in the south so there  were lots of christians in my class you know they're they go to church and so i say why do  you go to church and they don't know right and i say do you you know what about this part of the  bible where you know is talking about this angel or that angel and you know this and that and  they're like well that doesn't happen anymore right and so i think that they're you know so  i try to get them to to interrogate you know their own religion like what does it say why are you  christian you know or why are you jewish like why are you christian you know why are you jewish  why are you doing this you know is it just because this is your the cultural tradition  your heritage because it could be and that's fair enough okay yeah um but what i really liked about  carl neal's talk at the salt uh conference was that he basically did the same thing and i thought  it was really interesting but he did the same thing of well you know you're talking you're  talking to religion people who are religious and all of a sudden they're confronted with  the reality that what they think is this metaphysical thing is actually real well  that's going to be a shock to them and they're going to be like why are you doing this you know  shock for them are you implying that perhaps we as a society may not be ready for disclosure  i guess i would draw an analogy though for people that believe in a certain faith tradition whatever  that faith tradition is and hold to that and subscribe to that in a very serious and devout way  and and you know sort of pose the question even for folks of that ilk and i would count myself  as one if you're confronted with the reality of your religious belief system like the reality  of the metaphysical uh an angel a a messenger from god what have you that's going to be a  sea state change in your in your way of dealing with reality right even though you already believe  it right so it's one thing to believe and it's another to know and i think in this context this  this phenomena has an analogous the potential for an analogous effect both on the individual  and on society and i was actually shocked that he said it and i was like wow uh that's kind of a  kind of what i say to students but never in this never so bluntly like never like no this is a  reality you know because i can't really say that i you know maybe it's reality maybe it's not a  reality um but there's whole tradition of it yeah well it's still like one of these things where  believing this stuff you know it can either sort of burn you or save you like it feels like even  angels themselves are kind of misinterpreted as these like cherubic friendly beings you know and  in the modern day  and in fact if you look historically at angel interactions that you know a lot of which you  write about uh these can be extremely violent and they can you know deal with you very harshly  and they can set you on a path that might be sort of more morally pure they might excavate sort of  bad things that leave you and you know you become better or whatever but  it can be extremely painful in the process yes i think so so one of the things that was shocking  to me when i first started doing this was the reality that the government was looking into it  whereas i was looking into it as truly historical metaphorical not real okay  then i recognized that a lot of people felt like it was their duty to contact  these things right and that again that brought me to another level of like what a bad idea  you know because historically well here's an example so when i first started  corresponding with aerospace people people in aerospace um corporations and things like that um  uh what they were having to do was they were doing their own research right so and they they wanted  the data like they wanted to know what did european catholics see um when they saw an  angel or a demon or something like that uh did did they have any effects like what kind of effects  did they have on their bodies and things like that and did they have any did they report like other  types of effects well yeah all that data is there so you know i started to look at it and i met  gary nolan so i met gary nolan pretty early on probably about 2014.  2014. And he shared with me his own research. So he had been recruited just as I was being  recruited. He was also recruited to work with people who were, you know, in the program,  I guess you could call it, or I don't know how really to discuss it. You know, he was,  the government was looking into UAPs and he was a person who could help. Okay. So they recruited him  and I got to see some of the research that he was doing. And some of it had to do with the  effects that it had on people. And they were like radiation burns and things like that.  So looking through the historical record, I saw that indeed there were cases where  people reported being hurt, you know, in this way. So yeah, so it's not the best idea then to just  decide that this is something you're going to undertake. And I never propose that, by the way,  I always say, learn about it, but don't engage in doing it. Like I propose for people,  if they're interested, if they actually have their own religious,  tradition, check it out, go back to it and look at it again. So if it's Judaism, go back to it.  There's a rich heritage. Buddhism, same thing, go back to it. There's a rich heritage. My religion,  Catholicism, go back to it. There's a rich heritage there. So I think that's probably  the best way to start looking at it.  Mm. And it's so fascinating that contemporary aerospace, you know, people are reaching out  to you as well as, you know, people from,  NASA. It does feel like we're on the precipice of kind of this new age where a lot of this stuff  seems to be coming out because the conventional history of a lot of these programs and companies  are just, you know, chemical combustion, nuts and bolts, you know, it's all kind of this materialist  reductionist science. But in fact, I think when you speak to a lot of the people at these,  these organizations, they're extremely open-minded and it's almost like science cleaved off in like  the fifties or sixties. And I think that's, I think that's kind of the, I think that's kind of  like the fifties or sixties and hit a cul-de-sac and kind of academia and then aerospace just kept going.  But it's this also, you have this religious valence on top of it as well, where like the early NASA missions had,  you know, uh, Horace and Osiris. And, um, it was like, I mean, you told me in our last interview, right?  It was like, uh, Greek and Latin, you know, on, uh, uh, symbology and yeah, first century Latin, first century Latin.  That's right. The empire, the empire.  Why do you think?  Why do you think they kind of were paying homage to that tradition?  Yeah, that's such a great question.  So first I don't know.  Yeah.  Okay.  Nobody would ever give me a straight answer, but I did ask.  Do you think there's somebody in charge who was like, yeah, like I know that the, like Greeks had it right.  And you have to sort of deal with these NHI in order to get to space and like, this is the program.  Or do you think it was some emergent thing that like they were kind of softly in touch?  Maybe that's an unanswerable question.  I don't know.  Um, I believe that, so my own opinion about this, this is just my opinion after looking and talking to people that are, you know, the people that are doing it actually, you know, doing, okay.  So, um, they would tell me that this was a way to pay homage to the sponsors.  They call them the sponsors.  And I, you know, I'd ask, do they read Latin, you know, kind of thing, like really?  And they would say, absolutely.  I think that it's a large tradition.  I think that it's a large tradition that goes unacknowledged in our history.  And do you think it's sort of hermetically passed?  Oh, for sure.  Absolutely.  It is.  Yes.  But that's fascinating because that's sort of tying today's space program to like, maybe, you know, hermetically sealed, you know, uh, Egyptian, you know, traditions.  Like, like how far back does this go?  It's amazing.  I know.  I mean, it's, it's definitely, it's not a Christianized veneer.  So if you go to the Russian cosmos tradition, which is a similar tradition, you know,  where they believe in, you know, like, uh, Konstantin Tchaikovsky believed in NHI and that he was, you know, he believed in this and he wrote books about it and he's the father of Russian rocketry, um, they're Christian.  They have kind of a Christian overlay to this or framework, but, you know, we have Jack Parsons, definitely not a Christian.  Um, but then you do have the same, you know, you have the impetus that stays there.  It's not as weird as Jack Parsons, but it's weird enough.  Yeah.  It's definitely not Christian.  It seems to be Greco-Roman, you know, with the, the recognition that the, that there are these deities, right.  You know, and, uh, does it go back to Egypt?  I don't know.  I don't know.  You know, I am not an insider, so I don't have an inside track.  I just can spot the myth that's being called a myth, but it's actually real that they're like, you know, there are, they are doing this intentionally.  Well, I think that's kind of this myth.  I think that's kind of the myth in disclosure overall, because like both of us are on the outside, but we've like poked, you know, we've poked around, like we have like a decent mental map that's probably like better than just the average person who's like not really, you know, interested in this stuff.  Right.  And like my serious inclination now that was not the case a few years ago is that there's like no one in charge or that like, if it is, there is something in charge, it's this like loosely distributed weird thing.  That's like emerging.  And it has like a mind of its own.  And maybe there are some people kind of tapped into deeper layers of reality, but it's certainly not commensurate with some clear clearance system or classification system within the government.  Yeah, that's okay.  So I'm fully on board with that theory.  And, you know, because you can't, we can't prove it, can we?  Yeah.  But it's just a theory, but I'll give you some examples.  But we've met enough people who like people on the outside are like, that's the deep state architect of the.  Godfather of the UFO stuff.  And like, we meet them and they're like, well, they don't know a lot of stuff that this other person knows.  And, you know, there's like a lot of that going on.  Yeah.  A lot of it.  So that made me actually think about the oral tradition of it because I was around enough people to know that they figured out their missions, not from asking people or having someone tell them.  They had to figure it out on their own.  And that process was hard for them.  And they didn't even know that they got it right.  Until they got an award for it, like two years later.  So they didn't know.  And they would also tell me things like, well, people were on this mission, but they never knew until they got the, the, you know, the, the card or not the card, the patch until they got the patch or whatnot, or they, you know, they figured it out.  And so I was beginning to see it as when I, I have friends that are indigenous and they occasionally tell me a couple of things, you know, about their.  Worldview and the way that they're, uh, like Australian Aboriginal culture works.  Right.  And apparently there's like a very, um, succinct and transmissible oral tradition that is really old.  Like, you know, what, 30,000 years old or something like that.  And it has to do with, you know, NHI and things like that.  And so I began to see our space program like that, like, wow, that's how it works.  There's an oral tradition.  That's.  Yeah.  Transmitted, but it's not transmitted through this memo, you know, so the declassified memos, what do they really mean?  You know, when there's this type of tradition.  Yeah.  Well, all the memos seem like they're kind of groping in the dark and they don't really know what these things are.  I'm a big fan of this mid-century inventor, Townsend Brown, who we talked about earlier with Carl Nell.  And he says, it's like, you know, fish in the water.  They don't know, you know, the whole, they just see the holes in the ships over, over top, but they have no idea what those ships are transporting or why they're there.  And that really, you know, feels like where we're at, but you bring up the, this idea of a patch.  What, what do you mean by that?  Okay.  So the patches, so, um, in the space force or whatever we call it today, you know, where people are on missions to send things up into space satellites or what have you, uh, they work on these, these, um, and they get these patches.  Okay.  So a lot of people know about these patches.  They have a Roman God on them or something like that.  And they usually have.  The, the Latin that describes the, the mission, but in a way that's really opaque and even making fun of outsiders.  Right.  So this is the mission.  You could even, you know, go online and see a lot of those patches.  And I've known someone to have like, uh, at least 150 of these patches.  Yeah.  So this is a person whose whole life has been doing this work.  Wow.  Well, I think about, um, the person you pseudonymously.  Tyler in your book, and he's this NASA mission controller.  It seems like he's using kind of consciousness protocols to make the launches work.  He's this very interesting figure, but then he goes to the Vatican with you and he has this conversion experience.  And it's almost as if.  Uh, what he looks into in the Vatican archives confirms that his, the work that he's been doing is somehow mystical and like way more like globally meaningful than just this nuts and bolts.  Like we're putting satellites in space sort of thing.  Yeah, that was really an amazing, um, experience for me to witness the conversion that he went through.  Uh, we started at the Vatican looking at the, the records of, uh, Joseph of Copertino and a, and a bi-locating sister, um, Maria Vagrida.  And we also had exposure to, uh, Peter Gumpel, who had been a papal advisor, who's a Jesuit, um, talked a lot about the Templars, by the way.  Interesting.  Yeah.  And, um, do you remember what he said about the Templars?  I do.  Okay.  Moving on.  so that's where it started.  So he started to, to re-examine his life, I guess.  And I could see that process cuz I've seen it before.  And I had a feeling that when we got to castle Gandolfo at the Vatican observatory, where he was gonna meet astrophysicist monks and, you know, those people that live like that, they have, you know, that's their mission.  And their mission is fused, it's a, it fuses religion and science.  Mm-hmm.  I knew that that, that would be his place.  Mm-hmm.  And that he would probably convert at that point.  And I was right.  So then we left the Vatican and we went there and then he spent a lot of time in the archives looking at Copernicus and Kepler, uh, and, you know, originals, by the way, and also, uh, looking at, uh, electromagnetism.  It's amazing.  And things like that.  And I just like.  Yeah.  I couldn't get him out of the archive, just like glued to these books.  It's incredible.  And the other thing I wanted to follow up on from our first interview is you said this remarkable thing and I kind of like, just, I don't know, I ignored it and bad interviewer in, in my case or something, because you said this really profound thing.  You said that you, when you went with Tyler to the Vatican observatory, they knew who he was before having gone there.  And that tripped me out when I was watching it over in the edit, because I was like, why does the Vatican.  Observatory, they're obviously very well respected and well-staffed when it comes to real astronomy, but how do they know who a NASA mission controller from the U S is?  Yeah, not only that, but when we were there, we just happened to correspond with a, a trip that, um, all these young scientists from ESA, so the European space agency, they were all there too.  And so brother guy, who's the director got bright, uh, guy console Manio.  He was, he was giving them, um, you know, a really awesome.  Tour and talk and everything.  So he introduced us.  And so he introduced me and they were like, Hmm, you know, kind of cool clap, clap, clap.  And they introduced Tyler with his real name and the whole place just erupted into just, yes, like that.  And that was a recognition for me that Americans kind of don't know what's going on, but they did.  Yeah.  They were to, to them, he was a hero.  Yeah.  It was really, really cool.  That's incredible.  The other interesting connection with Tyler is he met Chris Bledsoe, I think, or before you, and they had a relationship and I think, uh, Ryan Bledsoe, who's Chris's son said that, um, Tyler had told Chris that he was part of a group with Townsend Brown, who I just mentioned.  So Townsend Brown is this like fascinating mid-century inventor who I think, you know, made more discoveries in the world of gravity than meet the eye, you know, might've tied gravity and electromagnetism.  Yeah.  And that has implications for time as well, because if you can shift gravity at all, you can shift time and general relativity and he would talk in his private life constantly about time travel.  And so what I found just so fascinating is Tyler tells the Bledsoes that he was involved with a group that was based in Nassau and the Bahamas and Townsend Brown was the president of this group and time travel technology was involved.  And I would totally discount that and think.  That's probably wrong.  If I didn't know so much about Townsend Brown, and I know he spent a ton of time in Nassau and the Bahamas and with a very interesting kind of cast of characters.  Well, you know, that's so fascinating because when I knew Tyler, he was always, he was always talking about time travel.  Really?  Yeah.  Whenever a new movie about time travel would come out, he would go see it.  Like the adjustment bureau.  Yeah.  Oh, he loved it.  Yeah.  Yeah.  That's fascinating.  Yeah.  So, um, I mean, wow.  I don't know.  That's amazing.  It seems like we both know.  So you're kind of like the person who talks about, uh, Brown.  Right.  Yeah.  And then he's an invisible where he was until you.  Right.  And then when I met Tyler, that's what I thought.  I thought more people have to know about this person because he's an invisible, but he impacts so much of our history and we don't even know it.  That's the way.  Yes.  Yeah.  I felt the same way.  I felt like it was my duty or something because he died penniless and I'm convinced his work made it into the B2.  Stealth bomber, like premieres, you know, stealth bomber, you know, and he was, he was paid off by this finance here at Northrop Grumman, like a ridiculously low sum of money for the rest of his life.  And, and, and then not even that.  I mean, I think he literally like unified the field experimentally.  And so like everybody knows who even test Tesla got ripped off, but people know who he is and he has a great car company named after him today.  Nobody knew who this guy was and, and he, he created, he was such a Patriot.  He was such an American Patriot.  He, you know, it was cold war era.  And so these discoveries obviously have implications for, you know, weaponry and all sorts of other things.  And so he created tons of disinfo about his own work to throw people off the trail.  And so he kind of died penniless and obscurity on Catalina Island.  And yeah, so I'm a, you felt that Steve, so you felt the same duty with Tyler.  I don't know what I felt.  I felt a sense that you have like a sense of injustice, you know, that we want the world to be transparent.  Let me give you something.  This can be something that I think is, is relevant.  During the time that I knew Tyler, there were other people like him, invisibles, like I called them the invisibles, right?  And one of them had passed away.  And this is a person whose family didn't even know what they did.  So there was a big sense of sadness on their part because they, they couldn't eulogize him correctly.  They felt because they did not know.  And so Tyler actually asked me if I would help.  That's just like an humiliation.  You know, that was the reason why Iel dow to write the eulogy so I did.  I wrote the eulogy.  And during the time period of writing, it was so emotional because I was like, wow, you know how, how do I say this, you know?  So I helped them.  I helped him write it.  And they really, they reached out to me afterwards and they were, it was consoling to them because they, because someone outside the family recognize their pain.  that's so amazing wow yeah well do you think that these invisibles are sort of outing themselves  right now it seems it seems like some yeah it seems like they're they're done with this kind  of life right and they want to but um but again you know we talked about the reasons why i had  to go back and look back at plato's republic which was a text written through trauma the trauma of  a government killing socrates the mentor of plato like a teacher who was a wisdom teacher  he wasn't doing anybody any harm um so in that context maybe the the whistleblowers should be  should maintain secrecy i don't know i think that uh it's not a great outlook to tell you  the truth i mean in the long run it is but there's a a spot that's bad it's really bad and  most of the the time is bad right so christians are told you know the world  is going to be a mess and they're going to be a mess and they're going to be a mess and they're  going to be a mess and they're going to be a mess and they're going to be a mess and the world's not  for you this place is not for you i mean really that's what christianity suggests and in a sense  that's what plato's republic suggests too because is everybody going to do the dialectic with each  other and kind of no no nobody cares to do it but so do you see what i'm saying there there are  groups of people who do yeah you know does it have to be for everyone no there's no sort of universal  fate and uh one needs to sort of save themselves and but do that in a sort of maybe communal  way i think you have to do it in a community you do think you have i mean even buddha said so right  he said that there were three keys to buddhism one is that you can do it the other one is um the dharma  which is the teaching and the teaching is could be anything right it doesn't have to be a scripture  um it could be an event that teaches you could be having kids by the way  you know it's a really great way to like learn about life and yourself um so there's the dharma  but of course there's the sangha and you can only do it in a group because you have each other  to help each other that's fascinating well i think that's the perfect note to end on diane i really  appreciate your time and it's been a great day kind of a marathon and uh yeah i'm excited to see  what happens in both in ufo world but also in the world at large because we're in very there's a  there's a confucian proverb you know it's like better to live in interesting times than good  times or something and that's right i guess we definitely live in interesting yeah we can  rationalize our world by saying that or something  well anyway thanks for talking with me jesse it's always fun to talk with you it was a blast yeah
