================================================================================
American Alchemy - Sheehan JFK (CORRECTED)
================================================================================

DIARIZATION CORRECTIONS APPLIED:
----------------------------------------
  False interjections merged: 24
  Mid-sentence switches fixed: 158
  Segments: 3603 -> 3421

TRANSCRIPT:
================================================================================

[0:00] News Clip:
  The president's car is now turning onto Elm Street and it will be only a
  matter of minutes before he arrives at the trademark.
  It appears as though something has happened in the motorcade route.
[0:12] Jeremy Ris:
  The JFK files were just released.
[0:14] News Clip:
  The National Archives released thousands of new pages of declassified
  records related to President John F. Kennedy's assassination.
[0:20] Unknown Guest:
  80,000 pages of documents is a lot to sift through.
  Can you just tell us who killed Kennedy?
[0:25] Jeremy Ris:
  Who should be held culpable?
[0:27] Unknown Guest:
  I don't want to point my finger at anyone in a case like this.
[0:31] News Clip:
  Numerous people running up the hill alongside Elm Street.
[0:35] Unknown Guest:
  Who were the two men on the grassy knoll?
  Who were they?
  This guy's like a radio man.
  He looks like a Cuban.
  He's out of place.
  And he's sitting right next to the umbrella man.
  There's Rip Robertson, photographs of Rip Robertson, who's the field
  operations commander for the S-Force.
  Standing right there in Dilley Plaza, you've got Ed Lansdale.
  Photographs of Lansdale sitting right there and his wife identifying him.
  The thing that I find to be so special about what we now know is the
  relationship that Oswald,
  had with all these guys.
  Back up, man!
  Did you shoot the president?
  I'm just a patsy.
  All of this is a side product of deception, duplicity.
  And to think that he was alone, taken completely by surprise by this.
  Nonsense.
  It's nonsense, man.
  It was all set up by the highest levels.
  And they got away with it for 62 years.
  Maybe you should interview me.
[1:47] Jeremy Ris:
  You know, the JFK files were just released.
[1:50] News Clip:
  Archives, a short time ago, released thousands of new pages of declassified
  records related to President John F. Kennedy's assassination.
[1:57] Jeremy Ris:
  You have 80,000 documents that require a lot of, you know, artificial
  intelligence overlay,
  optical character recognition to make any sense of.
  Even then, I think very few people made any sense of them.
  I think they left more confused.
  There's a great quote by Brett Weinstein where it's like looking through the
  JFK files is like looking for a needle in the haystack where the needle is
  missing.
  And even President Trump, when he was asked,
  point blank, who killed JFK after the file drop, he said, we released the
  files.
  We did a historic thing or whatever.
[2:27] Unknown Guest:
  80,000 pages of documents is a lot to sit through.
  Can you just tell us who killed Kennedy?
[2:33] Donald Trump:
  Well, you know, I was given the task of releasing that because many
  presidents have gone through it and they haven't released.
  And I said, release.
  We even released Social Security numbers.
  I didn't want anything deleted.
  They said, sir, what about Social Security?
[2:50] Jeremy Ris:
  I said, no, there's no way that you can get that.
  I said, well, yeah, but you know, I had to look at the files.
  The other thing that I really thought of was that they should be held
  culpable.
  They should be held culpable.
  And so I think that really sidestepped the point blank question is who
  should be held culpable?
  And I don't think anybody has a good answer to that after that file release.
  I'm here with Jeremy Rys, alien scientist.
  You've been making epic videos for 20 years on not only UFOs and aliens, but
  often the science, the secret science behind all this stuff, along with
  sprinkle and some of your favorite conspiracies.
  And it's I can't wait to speak to you, man.
  some phone conversations we don't agree on everything no i don't have to we
  don't have
  to that's the point of having conversations and uh i'm excited to have you
  man thank you for being here for sure man thanks for having me it's great to
  finally be here absolutely all right well
  there's so many jumping off points there were just these jfk disclosures
  right like what eighty thousand how many documents like a whole bunch and
  then there's you know how many how many things that didn't write down you
  know you think like you're planning to murder somebody you don't write stuff
  down and keep a blog and a whole bunch of incriminating evidence on yourself
  so there's a lot of cool stuff in the documents that have come out so far
  but you know really you learn more uh from talking to long-term
  assassination researchers who've been way more
  i feel like people come out came out of this way more confused than a lot of
  people did yeah there's a lot of the the media use it as an opportunity to
  once again you know hype up this uh idea that oh there's nothing in the
  documents there's nothing new here and there's nothing new here and there's
  nothing new here and there's nothing new here here.
[4:19] Unknown Guest:
  This is all just conspiracy theories.
  You know, the typical Operation Mockingbird mantras
  and whatnot.
  But yeah, really, the JFK research community has cracked this case and
  they've
  cracked it for a number of years.
  I mean, Jim Mars was one of the first with Crossfire. That
  was the book that Oliver Stone's JFK was based on.
  And that really laid the foundation for a lot of
  the investigations that followed.
  And there's been decades and decades and tons of people have dug
  into this from every possible angle.
  And now it's just come out that, you know, Priscilla
  McMillan, who interviewed Lee when he went to Russia and also befriended
  Marina Oswald and
  wrote her autobiography for her.
  She's a CIA agent.
  She's a witting CIA asset.
  And that came
  out in one of the things that was revealed in the documents, which shows the
  level that they went
  through to get ahead of the sources and the story and be like, all right,
  we're going to,
  we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going
  to, we're going to,
  we're going to put our people in so that anyone getting information about
  this from the sources
  has to go through us basically.
[5:24] Jeremy Ris:
  So I know you to be, uh, you know, as deep on the topic as
  maybe anybody alive and you have a very coherent narrative.
  So what do you think happened?
  Who,
  who killed JFK?
[5:35] Unknown Guest:
  They actually, the shot that was fired from the knoll that killed him was,
  uh,
  was Morales, uh, David Morales.
  And, and he was called the Mexican.
  They're kind of different
  nicknames.
  They had,
  they were, but he was the crack shot, uh, out of the team, the S force team
  that had been put
  together to kill Fidel Castro.
  And it was a triangular, uh, a fire team, uh, plan, you know,
  to have three gunmen crossfire at a moving target.
  That was the plan.
  That was the structure that
  they'd set up and that they trained down in Oaxaca, Mexico, you know, uh, at
  the ranch of,
  uh, of Clint Murchison jr. And they trained them up down there to do that,
  to kill not, not only
  Fidel Castro, but Raul Castro and Che Guevara and five other commandantes
  they had on the list.
[6:24] Jeremy Ris:
  Hmm.
  So this was the 5412 committee, which was run by Nixon under Eisenhower.
  He's setting up
  these sort of covert operations to take out Che Guevara and Castro, but then
  they get used in
  the assassination of JFK.
  How, how does that occur?
[6:43] Unknown Guest:
  Well, well, what happened, what happened
  is the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
  the, the, the, the, the, the,
  the, the people on the task force, the people that were recruited to be on
  the, the S force to
  kill Castro, uh, in short Castro and Che Guevara and the others that they
  were rabid anti-communist,
  uh, Cubanos that had fled from Cuba in January of 1959 when Batista was
  overthrown and they all
  fled up to Florida and camped out basically in Miami and Tampa, uh,
  primarily.
  And the, a lot of them were mafia gunmen that worked for Santos Traficante,
  who was the don of
  the mafia, uh, in Havana and ran the gambling casinos, the houses of
  prostitution, but most
  importantly, the heroin smuggling that was coming in from Southeast Asia,
  because that was critical
  because the, a portion of the profits from the heroin sales that were going
  on through the mafia
  run by Santos Traficante in the Gambinos that they were running.
  the heroin into the United States
  and a portion of the profits
  that were being skimmed off that sale
  were being used to purchase military equipment
  and explosives to smuggle to the Kuomintang in China.
[8:00] Jeremy Ris:
  Whoa, so this is pre-Iran Contra,
  but the same sort of architecture.
[8:04] Unknown Guest:
  Oh yeah, same move.
  And that's where they got the idea to keep doing it,
  so that they had the whole thing set up
  where the portion of the heroin income
  was being used to purchase the explosives and weapons.
  There was a company set up with offices in Havana
  and in Miami that was the Sea Supply Corporation,
  they called it.
  And on the face of it is the SEA,
  oh, it's the Sea Supply Corporation,
  some kind of maritime thing.
  It was a Southeast Asian supply company
  run by Paul Halliwell,
  the full-time Central Intelligence Agency employee
  running the operation.
  So he was getting the money
  to the Kuomintang.
  He was actually using the money
  from the heroin smuggling, a portion of it,
  to purchase the weapons and explosives here,
  and then they would fly them from here.
  And that was that whole Terry and the Pirates thing,
  what they call flying the hump,
  that they had this whole operation
  that a fellow named William D. Pauly
  worked for Prentiss Aviation,
  and they were providing the airplanes,
  and they were smuggling them and flying them into China.
  So there was, and, you know,
  Clare Booth Luce was involved in it.
  Really, Henry Luce's wife.
  That's right, and it was, and Dulles was involved.
  They were all involved in it.
  That's what they called the China Lobby.
  That was that whole group that, right from way back,
  had figured that they were planning to really turn
  the development operations of their economic investments into Asia.
[9:36] Jeremy Ris:
  And Henry Luce then starts Life and Time magazine,
  which publishes the Zapruder film, with the Mississippi,
  missing frames of the JFK assassination.
  That's right.
  So that's a very interesting connection as well.
[9:46] Unknown Guest:
  Which, and as you know, I mean,
  I know the guy that got the film.
  Dick Billings.
  Yeah, Dick Billings, and knew all about how they,
  they brought it to Rochester and doctored it.
  He sat and told me about the whole thing.
[9:56] Jeremy Ris:
  That's wild.
  So he talks about them doctoring the film,
  and taking certain frames out and stuff?
  And did the frames involve David Morales
  and the other men on the grass?
[10:06] Unknown Guest:
  No, it just, it made it clear that he was being,
  he was shot from the front.
  Okay.
  So you could tell from the thing,
  so that they reversed the actual frames of the film.
[10:18] Jeremy Ris:
  And then the guy who let out the Zapruder film
  is a guy named Charles Douglas Jackson,
  who was, basically ran psychological warfare
  for the United States.
  He was in the psychological strategy board
  with Gordon Gray and some of these other guys.
  Yeah.
  And he let out the Zapruder film in Life magazine,
  which he was involved with, but with missing frames.
  And so.
[10:38] Unknown Guest:
  And that was a big thing.
  The other guy that ran the psychological warfare program
  for JM Wave station was George Ioannidis.
  And it recently came out that these files proved
  that he lied about his involvement with the program.
  Because they asked him, who ran the program?
  He said, I don't know.
  I'll have to look and check for you.
  And he never got back.
  They never got back to that question, never resolved that.
  Well, he's the one that ran the program.
  How do you not know who ran the program?
  You ran the program.
  And he lied about it to Congress in front of,
  and the whole entire of America.
  So that one came out.
  That was it.
  That was a huge one.
  Ann Slinger, too, that, not Ann Slinger.
  Ann Slinger, Angleton, James Jesus Angleton.
  And he was running this whole spying program
  and the mail intercept program.
  And this guy, Reuben Efron, was in charge of that.
  And Reuben Efron is in the files.
  And they ask him about, do you know Reuben Efron?
  And he says, no, that's a lie.
  You hired Reuben Efron.
  And he ran the spy program for you
  that was reading Lee Harvey Oswald's mail
  and spying on this dude for years,
  because he had a 201 file into the CIA since 1959.
  So they were, they have a massive file
  on Lee Harvey Oswald following all his actions.
  And to think that he was a lone nut
  and that we didn't know, we had no idea.
  And we were taken completely by surprise by this, nonsense.
  It's nonsense, man.
  It was all set up by the highest levels
  and they got away with it for 60, 62 years.
  But it's, I don't want it to be too confusing to everybody.
  It's, it's easier kind of having in a chronological structure
  to understand how this thing happened,
  because it's a, the,
  the entire operation was set up way back in 1960.
  You know, when Fidel Castro and Che Guevara and the guys
  overthrew Batista and drove him out in January of 1959,
  Richard Nixon, as the vice president under Eisenhower
  and the chair of the 5412 Committee,
  the Supervised Covert Operations,
  he sent all kinds of communications to Fidel Castro saying,
  look, you are fine, you've overthrown Batista, okay,
  it's a deal.
  What we want to do is make sure you don't have
  any diplomatic relations with China or Russia.
  You can't have, and he said,
  you can't have any kind of relations with them at all.
  And Fidel Castro said, screw you.
  Who do you think you're talking to here?
  You know, and you know, they, they, you know,
  waved the old Monroe Doctrine flag at him and said,
  which he didn't give a crap about, you know,
  and, and so Nixon got really PO'd with him.
  And so he then set up this covert operation,
  which was called originally Operation 40.
  Okay.
  And then he recruited, naturally enough,
  he recruited a whole bunch of,
  a whole bunch of Batista supporters
  who supported the fascist authoritarian regime down there
  and worked directly with Santos Traficante
  because Santos Traficante was the business partner
  of Batista and Paul Halliwell
  in running the heroin operations.
  And it was just a means of covert funding
  for the operations to oppose China, to oppose Mao Zedong.
  This is amazing.
  Yeah.
  And they didn't, they didn't want to tell Congress
  about it at all because they didn't think
  they could muster enough support from Congress
  to actually support covert operations against Mao Zedong.
  So they did it totally covertly.
  The CIA sent up this entire operation
  to be supporting Chiang Kai-shek
  in the so-called Nationalist Forces.
  And the chief of security for, for Chiang Kai-shek
  was the head of the Green Gang,
  the major heroin operation
  in, in China.
  No way.
[14:12] SPEAKER_02:
  Oh yeah.
  Whoa.
[14:13] Jeremy Ris:
  Yeah.
  That is wild.
  Yeah.
  Okay, so in 59, 60 timeframe,
  you have the 5412 Commission and-
  Committee.
  Committee, rather.
  You have, of which Nixon is ahead
  and he's sort of, you know,
  running kind of national security.
  He partners with mafia dons like Traficante.
[14:34] Unknown Guest:
  Well, actually, actually he avoided that one by one step.
  What he did is,
  he recruited Howard Hughes.
  Howard Hughes, yeah.
  He called Howard Hughes
  because Howard Hughes was a consultant
  to the 5412 Committee.
  He would, he had designed the Spruce Goose,
  which became the prototype for the C-5A cargo plane
  that could fly, you know, major covert operations in
  and equipment and stuff.
  And he also, he also designed the Golmar Explorer,
  that ship that could pick up Russian submarines
  off the bottom of the ocean and stuff
  if they fell through.
  And a couple other extraordinarily sensitive, you know,
  and a couple other extraordinarily sensitive, you know,
  and a couple other extraordinarily sensitive, you know,
  extraordinarily sensitive programs
  that he was working on.
  Like what?
  Yeah, I can't tell you.
[15:14] Jeremy Ris:
  I can't tell you that because of the way I know.
  You've said this before to me about Howard Hughes
  and then I always go, is it the UFO stuff?
  You go, no.
[15:22] Unknown Guest:
  No, no, it wasn't that.
  It was-
[15:25] Jeremy Ris:
  What else could be so sensitive?
  Is it like time travel or something?
[15:28] Unknown Guest:
  No, no, no, no, nothing esoteric like that.
[15:31] Jeremy Ris:
  You're a man of the people, Danny.
  We need to know.
  Yeah.
  As evidenced by Tim Dillon's recent
  and masterful interview with CNN, Legacy Media,
  the media can be a bit problematic.
  It's more sensationalist and divided than ever.
  They ask leading questions,
  brainwashed by their social milieus,
  and that's why people are flocking to podcasts.
  But podcasts have their own limits.
  They're often three hours long.
  They're not super efficient.
  They aren't always fact-checked.
  They're sort of a hybrid of entertainment and news.
  So how do I stay informed amidst this backdrop?
  I started using my new favorite service, Ground News,
  a tool designed for both
  skeptics and truth-seekers like many in this community.
  Ground News is an app and website created
  by a former NASA engineer to tackle a problem we all face,
  how distorted the information is that we consume every day
  in the modern post-truth era.
  Ground News gathers coverage
  from over 50,000 sources worldwide,
  organizes the stories by topic,
  and even breaks down the bias and ownership
  behind each perspective so you know what you're getting.
  With features like the bias bar and factuality score,
  it's easy to see how different outlets frame
  and spin the same story.
  When you eat certain foods,
  you want to see the ingredients list.
  This is the same thing, but for content and news.
  For example, when I was researching
  those mysterious drone sightings in New Jersey in December,
  Ground News gave me instant access to over 200 articles,
  helping me uncover every angle, from the facts to the spin.
  Spoiler alert, I don't think they were just
  FAA-approved research drones.
  So if you're tired of echo chambers and one-sided narratives,
  Ground News is your ultimate tool for staying informed,
  and making better decisions.
  You can follow your favorite topics and compare coverage
  to find the most credible sources.
  And for a limited time, you can get the same plan
  I use every day for nearly half the price.
  Just go to ground.news slash jessemichaels,
  Michael's with no A,
  or scan this QR code to save 40%
  on their unlimited access vantage plan.
  Or gift it to someone you know
  and have more informed discussions
  and hopefully chill out about those drones.
  I only promote brands I vet,
  and I think you'll find them useful.
  Find them just as valuable as I do.
  Ground News, the truth is out there,
  you just need the right tools to find it.
[17:44] Unknown Guest:
  It's one of those kind of things that,
  one of the very rare things that I tend to agree
  that it would not be good to tell people about it.
  Sure.
  You know, it would generate all kinds of damage
  and it wouldn't really benefit anybody.
  Got it.
  It was the bottom line is,
  but because of that, he trusted Hughes.
  And so he contacts him using the red phone,
  the secure phone, which he had
  from the 5412 Committee of Communications,
  called Howard Hughes, and Traficante told us all this.
  This all came directly from Traficante
  about how the whole thing happened.
  And actually told us the day on which Richard Nixon
  called on the phone Howard Hughes
  was the day after Nelson Rockefeller withdrew,
  from the 1960 Republican presidential primary race.
  Whoa.
  Against Nixon.
  Because as soon as he withdrew,
  Nixon knew he was going to be the nominee
  for the Republican Party in 1960.
  And he was sure he was going to win, right?
  So he then took upon himself the authority basically
  of the incoming president to contact Hughes
  and ask him to put together an assassination team.
[19:03] SPEAKER_14:
  Why did Rockefeller step down right then?
  I don't quite.
[19:06] Unknown Guest:
  He just withdrew.
  He withdrew from the primary race for the.
[19:09] SPEAKER_14:
  Was that a coincidence or?
[19:10] Unknown Guest:
  No, no, but what it did is it freed up Nixon
  to realize he was going to be the nominee
  for the Republican Party.
  And so he was therefore confident
  he was getting ready to be president.
  And so he started exercising the kind of a power
  that a president might do.
  And so he took onto himself this kind of authority
  to actually reach out and have Howard Hughes
  set up an assassination team.
  Said, but you gotta keep it completely away
  from the White House.
  So you can't, you just gotta do it yourself.
  And so what Howard Hughes did is sent for one of his lawyers
  that he had, Bob Mayhew, and had Mayhew,
  he assigned Mayhew, said, here's the job.
  The president kept, they started referring to him
  as the president in their communication.
  Traffick County said so.
  Oh my God.
[19:54] SPEAKER_02:
  They kept referring to him as the president.
  To Nixon as the president.
  Yeah, they kept referring to him as the president.
  Didn't know he was the VP.
[19:58] Unknown Guest:
  No, yeah.
  And it said, you know, that he wants this done.
  He wants to keep it away from the White House.
  And so Bob Mayhew went to see, cause you know,
  Howard Hughes was in Las Vegas.
  He was hanging out at the, whether it was the,
  whether it was the Flamingo or the Sands, one of the two.
  But anyway, he was up in the big penthouse there
  and it was one of the mob hotels, right?
  And so he knew that they were there.
  So Bob Mayhew went to see Johnny Roselli,
  who was the bag man, you know, for the mafia skim,
  the skimming the cash off those casinos to be used, right?
  And so his principal, the guy,
  in charge of him was Sam Giancana out of Chicago.
  And so when Bob Mayhew went to Johnny Roselli and said,
  look, youse guys have your own reason
  for wanting to get rid of this Castro dude.
  You know, he shut down all your casinos,
  shut down your whore houses, he said.
  And very importantly,
  they've cut off the whole heroin supply, okay?
  And so that you got your own reasons
  for wanting to get rid of him.
  So, you know, that Nixon is assuming
  that you'll do this for us.
  And so, you know, and so, and so, and so, and so, and so.
  And so Johnny Roselli said, well, you know,
  I don't have the authority to make a decision like that.
  We're gonna have to talk to Sam Giancana.
  And so they went together, you know,
  Johnny Roselli and Bob Mayhew went to Chicago
  and met with Sam Giancana and pitched the proposal to him.
  And Sam Giancana realized that, you know,
  doing a favor like this for the president
  was gonna get them a lot of potential goodwill, right?
  And so, and keep them, keep the feds off their backs.
  So he was agreeing in principle to do it.
  He said, but you know, but this isn't up to me.
  That's Santos Traficante's territory.
  That's down in Havana.
  He's the mob boss in Havana.
  He's, even though he's up in Tampa now,
  cause he left Cuba, he said, so we have to go talk to him.
  So they went down, they went down to see him.
  Now they were down there about September or so.
  This all started around June, around June 7th.
  It was when Rockefeller withdrew, June 7th of 1970.
  So the, between then, it was now early September.
  Johnny Roselli, Bob Mayhew, and Sam Giancana
  went down to Florida to, and at the Fontainebleau Hotel,
  met with, met with Traficante.
  And they had two meetings in which finally Traficante
  tells us that, he said, you know,
  I agreed in principle to do this.
  He said, but I wanted to make sure that, you know,
  he said, it wasn't some kind of brain fog.
  He said, you know, on the part of Bob Mayhew
  or even Howard Hughes, wanted to make certain
  that this was coming from the president.
  That's what he, that's how he termed it.
  He said, and so that they had a third meeting
  and a guy, another guy comes to the meeting
  at the Fontainebleau Hotel using the nom de guerre Mr. Ed.
  And it was Sheffield Edwards, who was the chief of security
  of the Central Intelligence Agency under, under Dulles.
  Okay.
  And under the Eisenhower Bush administration.
  But so he comes to the meeting and, and gives them
  the green light to go ahead and do this.
  And so that's, so what Sam, what Traficante did is
  he recruited guys from his people that were from Havana,
  these gunmen that he had down there that were enforcers
  who had fled with him to, to Florida in January of 59
  and had gotten recruited.
  Recruited by, by Richard Nixon and the CIA
  to run covert operations against Cuba.
  Because when, when Fidel Castro just finally thumbed his nose at,
  at Nixon and said, you know, screw you.
  I'm, I'm going to have relations with anybody I want.
  So I'll have diplomatic relations with Russia and China.
  You know, therefore, quote, violating the Monroe Doctrine,
  you know, of allowing a foreign power to start having influence
  inside our hemisphere, you know, or our zone of influence.
  And so, so what happened is Richard Nixon had mounted
  this covert operation and he'd recruited all of these people
  that were Traficante gunmen and, and mobsters basically,
  but virulent anti-communists, you know, and were all in the,
  in around Miami.
  They had the 2506 Brigade.
  They had Alpha 66.
  There were a bunch of these kind of, it's unfair to call them covens,
  but I mean, they were, they were these, these,
  these gangs like that were there that were engaged in covert operation.
  And so they thought that they were kind of invested with kind of a certain
  kind of authority on the part of the federal government because they're paid
  by the CIA to do this.
  And they set up these, these bases.
  They set one up on No Name Key.
  They set one up on Swan Island.
  They put one in the Everglades.
  And then they had two of them at Lake Pontchartrain over in Louisiana,
  one on the southern coast of the, of Lake Pontchartrain.
  One on the northern coast.
  And they set up these,
  these paramilitary bases in these rabidly anti-communist pro-Batista,
  you know, Traficante gunmen.
  A lot of them, you know,
  were covert operators working under the auspices of the CIA to run these
  covert operations.
  So Traficante says, okay,
  Nixon wants me to put together this assassination team.
  I'm going to take my people who are working with the CIA.
  But in a completely different context,
  they don't have the capacity just to run covert operations.
  What I'm going to do is recruit 15 of them.
  I'll hand pick them and we'll put them into this special S force,
  they call it.
  And that's what they did.
  And they would send private planes to go pick them up,
  you know,
  at these five different paramilitary bases.
  They would pick up a couple of the guys at each one and they would fly them
  to Fort Huachuca in Arizona and big electronic surveillance operations that
  they've got going there.
  Fort Huachuca.
  And so they bring them there and then they would sign in and then they would
  just disappear off the records.
  And then they were flown down to Oaxaca,
  Mexico,
  to the ranch of Clint Murchison,
  Jr.
  Very wealthy,
  uh,
  ski on of the,
  this,
  uh,
  oil fortune,
  uh,
  down there,
  who his father,
  his father owned the Dallas Texans football team,
  you know,
  Cowboys.
  Yeah.
  Well,
  later Cowboys,
  it was,
  that's,
  that's who they were.
  And,
  you know,
  horse racing and rich people and so on.
  And so they had this big ranch down in Oaxaca.
  So they set up a triangular fire team base down there to,
  to practice shooting a moving target from three different locations to get a
  triangular crossfire onto the site,
  uh,
  onto the target.
  Uh,
  and they were training them.
  And Carl Jenkins was,
  uh,
  was brought in,
  uh,
  from the CIA to train them on this under ZR rifle.
  It was the code name for the program.
  But they,
  this was a whole separate thing.
  And it was not even known to many people at all that this was going on
  because they were trying to keep it away from the White House.
  So that operation is going on.
  And the way they funded it was from the skim of money off the casinos.
  Uh,
  and they would skim the money off the casinos.
  They would,
  uh,
  put the,
  the cash into these brand new,
  big expensive suitcases and put them in the trunk of brand new Cadillac
  automobiles.
  And they would drive them.
  And I know the guy that sold them,
  the,
  the Cadillacs,
  because he had the big dealership there.
  Whoa.
  In,
  in Vegas.
  Anyway,
  in,
  anyway,
  then I interviewed him at length about it.
  You know,
  so that they drive,
  they drive the cars,
  uh,
  through,
  uh,
  New Orleans.
  Uh,
  and Marcello was there and they did the audit on all the,
  all the money to keep track of how much money they were moving.
  And then they would repack it and they would drive them into Florida,
  deposit it in the Miami National Bank.
  Mm-hmm.
  Of Meyer Lansky.
  Mm-hmm.
  Uh,
  and then they would wire a portion of the money down into the Banco
  International,
  uh,
  down in Mexico City.
  Uh,
  and they put it into this account by,
  uh,
  this lawyer by the name of Ogarrio had the account down in the bank.
  Uh,
  and then they would pay the costs for the whole triangular fire team
  training base.
  Mm-hmm.
  Down in,
  in Oaxaca.
[28:26] Jeremy Ris:
  And,
  and that's the,
  that's.
  So how do you go from this systematic,
  uh,
  covert operation that ultimately is in support of the resistance in China,
  the,
  the Guomingtang and the,
  you know,
  uh,
  uh,
  Chiang Kai-Shek.
  How do you go from that?
  Um,
  and then this plan initially to take out,
  you know,
  Che Guevara and Castro.
  Yeah.
  Who are,
  you know,
  uh,
  impinging upon the Monroe Doctrine.
[28:52] Unknown Guest:
  Yes.
  To killing JFK.
  Well.
  Setting president.
  What,
  what,
  what happened is that, was the first time in 100 years that a candidate for
  the presidency announced the result of an election in which he was defeated
  and announced the victory of his opponent.
[29:11] News Clip:
  All of you work in a cause that is bigger than any man's ambition.
  And,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  and,
  any man's ambition, greater than any party.
  It is the cause of freedom, of justice, and
  peace for all mankind.
  And it is in that spirit that I now declare that John F. Kennedy has
  been elected President of the United States and Lyndon Johnson, Vice
  President of the
  United States.
[29:58] Unknown Guest:
  And Kennedy comes in, and they brief Kennedy now about the Bay of Pigs plan
  that they had
  going, but they didn't tell him about the assassination team at all.
[30:09] Jeremy Ris:
  Hey, guys, I want to tell you about my new favorite piece of apparel.
  These are called
  the Perfect Jeans.
  They're literally the perfect jeans.
  I used to wear jeans all the time,
  and they're kind of rough and not super stretchy or breathable.
  These are extremely comfortable.
  They work in casual environments.
  They work in work settings.
  They come in six different
  sizes from 26 inches to 50 inches, and they're all around.
  Just
  amazing.
  For a limited time, our listeners get 15% off your first order, plus free
  shipping at
  theperfectjean.nyc.
  Again, that's theperfectjean.nyc.
  Or just Google the Perfect Jeans.
  Use code
  JESSE15 for that 15% off.
  Again, that's code JESSE15.
  That's 15% off for new customers
  at theperfectjean.nyc.
  After purchase, they'll ask where you heard about them.
  Please support our show and tell them that we sent you.
  Fuck your khakis, get the perfect jean.
[31:11] Unknown Guest:
  And so they lure him into allowing the invasion to go on, the attempted
  invasion at the Bay of Pigs.
  But he tells them right from the very beginning that he won't provide air
  cover.
  He won't provide
  any air cover, and he won't provide any kind of U.S. military intervention.
  You know, they wanted
  to be able to land on the beach and basically raise the flag of free Cuba
  and then ask for U.S.
  intervention.
  And do it the old-fashioned way.
  You know, just send in a paramilitary operation.
  And Kennedy
  wouldn't do it.
  And they said, oh, he said, look, if you're telling me that the people of
  Cuba want
  to rise up against Castro because they're so unhappy with him, if they land
  on the beach and
  they raise the flag of a free Cuba, if the people all rally and toss out
  Castro, good.
  If you're
  telling me the truth that they're going to do it, you go ahead and do it.
  And what happened is they
  had two or three, you know, B-25s or these old-fashioned U.S. military units
  that were
  down in Nicaragua, actually, that the Somoza, Anastasio Somoza, was
  supporting them in doing
  this.
  You know, it was this kind of right-wing fascist dude.
  And so the bottom line is that
  they were going to provide their own air cover for this.
  And what happened is they were in a
  different time zone.
  And so they got there an hour late after the landing.
  And the guys had been
  knifed, whacked already.
  And so they were in a different time zone.
  And so they got there an hour
  late after the landing. And so they got there an hour late after the
  landing. And they sank their
  ammunition boat and everything, you know.
  And so they were trapped on the beach.
  And they all
  got arrested.
  And the whole thing fell through.
[32:44] News Clip:
  Wednesday, April 19th, resistance ends.
  All those
  who are not killed are taken prisoner.
[32:50] Unknown Guest:
  And then Kennedy took responsibility for it.
  And this is
  where the thing starts.
  Kennedy took responsibility for it.
  And the Cubano guys that got all arrested
  were upset at him for refusing to do it.
  And so they got there an hour late after the landing.
  And
  the Cubano guys that got all arrested were upset at him for refusing to do
  it.
  And so they got
  there an hour late after the landing. And so they got there an hour late
  after the landing. And so
  that, in fact, General Curtis LeMay and other folks from the Joint Chiefs
  had actually moved U.S.
  force into place.
  They put naval ships with Marines in them, you know, staged them contrary to
  the
  orders of the president.
  You know, set—ordered in the Marines to be—
[33:28] Jeremy Ris:
  There was so much at the time that Curtis LeMay felt the liberty to do by
  himself.
  Like, he
  would—he put a esplanade at Unexorable Resurrection that they put a
  encourages of the United States,
  when he went there.
  And he had when he left he went there, 거� Funk, the middleman, and he said,
  Apparently, I didn't even know this, during the Cuban Missile Crisis later,
  obviously, he put us into DEFCON 2 without the president's permission.
[33:43] Unknown Guest:
  He did.
  It's crazy.
  He did.
  And launched the U-2, ordered the U-2 to fly over Russia to do the final
  retargeting, which was, and did it at a low altitude that he knew the
  Russians would pick it up to send them the signals.
  He was trying to goad them into trying to initiate a nuclear war.
  You know, so the bottom line is that all that was going on at this time, and
  what happened is Kennedy took responsibility for it, of the snafu, and what
  he did is he apologized to Khrushchev for having allowed that thing to go
  down and gave him, gave Khrushchev, Kennedy did, his solemn promise that he
  would cease and desist from efforts to undermine the government in Cuba.
  And he went down to Cuba.
  He went down to Mexico.
  He went down to Miami at the Orange Bowl, actually, and convened a whole
  meeting of all these kind of right-wing Cubano refugees that had fled from
  there.
  And the whole stadium, he apologized to them all in person and said that he
  gave them his personal guarantee that the free flag of Cuba would be flying
  over the island by the end of his second term.
  And he said that to them.
  I can assure you that this flag will be returned to this brigade in a free
  Havana.
  They said, okay, we got you.
  And he turned around and had lied to Khrushchev and actually converted
  Operation 40 into Operation Mongoose.
  That's all it did.
  It set up the big operation on the University of Miami campus called JM
  Wave, this great big gigantic airplane set of hangars, and they had all the
  operations going on there.
  It was a full-scale war operation going on against Cuba.
  Mm-hmm.
[35:31] News Clip:
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
[35:31] Unknown Guest:
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  And so Khrushchev said, screw you, then, and started moving missiles in.
  And so all this was happening all right in that first period from 1961.
  He's elected in November of 1960, comes into office in January of 1961.
  You know, he does all this apologizing and stuff because it was in April of
  61 that the Bay of Pigs thing came down.
  And so he apologizes, but he's totally pissed.
  Pissed off, you know, at the CIA for bungling this whole operation, and the
  days of Allen Dulles were numbered.
  Mm-hmm.
  And so he waited all the way till the fall in September, October, you know,
  of 61, and then pushed Dulles out.
  But Dulles didn't leave.
  He didn't leave Washington.
  He had his whole setup over in Georgetown in his big brownstone over there.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Yeah, yeah, yeah.
[37:01] Jeremy Ris:
  I remember being in Michael Pillsbury's house, which I think was JFK's old
  house. Yeah.
  In Georgetown.
  Yeah.
  And just being like, this is amazing. Yeah.
  So cool.
  I mean, he's been a kind of lead China expert in every administration since
  Nixon. Yeah.
  And-
[37:19] Unknown Guest:
  It's a very elite group over there.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  So the bottom line is that, so the whole operation shifts over to Operation
  Mongoose being run
  out of JM Wave.
  Uh, and, and, and, and cruise ships are sending the missiles into Cuba.
  Uh, and then they discover the, the missiles in there.
  The whole Cuban missile crisis comes down, right?
  Within the past week, unmistakable evidence has established the fact that a
  series of
  offensive missile sites is now in preparation on that imprisoned island.
  Goes all the way through, uh, into the, into late October, right?
  Right.
  And then this, this bizarre...
  This bizarre thing happens with the UFO, right?
  Uh, that, uh, that in, in, we'll just set that aside for a moment. Yeah.
  Because, because it's, it's a very kind of comparative new piece of
  information. Mm-hmm.
  But the bottom line is that by the time they get to October 26th, the night
  of October
  26th, they come to within like two minutes.
  Mm-hmm.
  Uh, this whole thing with, with, uh, with, uh, uh, uh, General Curtis LeMay
  trying to
  instigate an actual nuclear exchange.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  Mm-hmm.
  And then Russia saying that, look, the, the most, the, the, the Russia, if
  they launched
  nuclear missiles against us, the most, they'll kill maybe 40 million people.
  Mm-hmm.
  You know, but we'll wipe them all out and we'll get rid of that entire
  scourge of communism
  coming out of Russia, uh, and then we'll win.
  Mm-hmm.
  Because we've only lost 40 million people, uh, and we'll have eliminated
  Russia as a,
  as a threat.
  And that was his whole thinking, right?
  Yeah.
  Uh, and, and the bottom line is Kennedy is so completely horrified at what,
  how close
  they came to the nuclear war.
  war.
  This is where it starts now.
  And what happened is he reached back out to, to Khrushchev
  said, okay, you're right.
  I lied to you.
  You know, we, we, you're right.
  We kept on doing
  the operation mongoose, you know, but you shouldn't have put the missiles in
  there.
  We're going to make a deal, you know, that I'll take the missiles out of
  Turkey.
  You take the missiles out of here.
  Uh, and he ordered the, all of those, those, uh, bases,
  those paramilitary bases to cease and desist from any further operations.
  But, but he didn't
  know about the assassination team that had been deployed that, uh, but he
  ordered this shutting
  down of all the bases.
  And what happens is in December, December of, uh, of 1962, uh, Frank
  Sturgis, who is the CIA liaison to the Cubano, uh, guys,
  uh, out on, uh, uh, no name key.
  Uh, uh, he, he decides he's going to, even after getting the
  orders from the president that they're all to stand down and to discontinue
  their operations.
  He in complete defiance with the, with the Cubans launches an assault into
  Cuba and sinks a Russian
  ship.
  Whoa.
  Which like nobody knows about, you know, that anymore, but they, they sank a
  Russian.
  When was this?
  It's December of 1960.
  Oh, uh, sinks a Russian ship.
  Kennedy freaks out over the fact that, you know, he'd already
  lied to Khrushchev once and he couldn't stand for doing it again.
  You know, the whole thing
  would fall apart.
  And so what he does is he, he sends in, he and Bobby, who's the attorney
  general,
  uh, they send in six helicopter gunships, uh, with us marshals sends it
  cause he couldn't trust
  FBI because of Hoover.
  And so, and so he, he,
  he sends in U S marshals and they burn out the base, uh, at, uh, at no name
  keep and arrest all
  those guys, including Sturgis and charge them with a violation of the
  neutrality act mounting
  military operations against a country with whom we have diplomatic
  relations.
  Right.
  Uh, and hold
  them for almost a week and then let them go.
  Okay.
  But it's kind of shot across the bow.
  The
  president's serious.
  They geez in on it.
  You know, you're not going to do this anymore.
  Then a second
  group, the ones in the Everglades.
  Mm-hmm that under the liaison of, uh, E Howard hunt, mm-hmm start planning
  another attack into
  Cuba in complete defiance of the president, even after the, what they had
  done over on, uh, on no
  name key.
  And so Bobby and John send in the same six helicopter gunships and burn them
  out too,
  and arrest them and charge them with the neutrality act violations.
  Uh, and the heads of
  the 50, the, the, uh, the two five Oh six brigade and alpha 60,
  six resolve.
  They're going to kill these guys.
  They're going to kill John and Bobby who are
  complete traders that they've lied to them.
  They came to, he came down and promised they were going
  to, going to support them and overthrowing the government.
  Now they're chickening out and they're,
  they're, they want to kill him.
  Uh, but they know that they can't get away with it, you know,
  but they've got the S force that's capable of doing something like that.
  So they're all kind
  of, you know, just pawn away like a charging bull wanting to get at the
  president.
  And kill him and the attorney general, both, you know, uh, and, uh, but they
  can't get away with
  this.
  And so what happens is Kennedy turns out, starts secretly.
  This is the key to this thing.
  He starts secretly exchanging letters with, with Khrushchev, uh, through
  Norman cousins.
  Uh, this guy is running letter 18 different letters back and forth off a
  completely off
  channel.
  No, no state department oversight, no CIA coverage, anything completely
  secret.
  Copy communications.
  Uh, and in those letters, they're deciding that they're both so totally
  traumatized by what happened, uh, and how their military forces can get out
  of control in the,
  the, with the nuclear weapons that are threat, the total annihilation of our
  whole human species.
  So they can't let this happen.
  So what they do is they start discussing how they're going to order.
  Each of them is going to exercise their respective executive authority to
  start ordering the
  disassembly of the nuclear warheads.
  In their respective arsenals and destroy them, not just take them and put
  them on a shelf
  somewhere where they can just screw them back on another week or so, you
  know, but destroy them.
  And they, they reach this agreement in principle.
[43:40] SPEAKER_02:
  So he was, JFK was really going for it.
  He was
  trying to denuclearize entirely, totally going for it.
[43:46] Jeremy Ris:
  And there's a, there's this book.
  Um,
  I think called Mary's mosaic.
  Oh yeah.
  About, you know, Mary pension.
  Yeah.
  Mary pension.
  Who's the
  wife of, uh, cord Meyer, cord.
  You know, world war II veteran who I believe came back with, uh, I think an
  eye patch and, uh, you
  know, he turned him into a pacifist and then he sort of got in with the
  Dulles, Allen Dulles kind
  of Intel Cabal and became this kind of warmonger who I think, beli later was
  in charge of operation
  mocking bird.
  So like incepting journalism world with, with an Intel assets.
  Um, but also, uh,
  was became this kind of, kind of bloodthirsty guy.
  And so his, uh,
  Yeah. Yeah. Um, but also, uh, was became this kind of, kind of bloodthirsty
  guy. And so his, uh,
  wife uh mary mary bishop meyer she murdered she was an artist and she was
  kind of a little more
  kind of spiritual hippie dippy and lsd stuff so yeah so she had an affair
  with jfk even more than that i mean it was it was a prolonged ongoing
  relationship she she became in a certain sense
  his actual sort of mistress and they did lsd together yes and provided by
  tim leary that's wild provided by timothy leary that's crazy he provided it
  to him i know the guy that
  knows him of course he did it um yeah okay yeah um are you still lugging
  around one of those
  bulky worn out wallets you know i am your posture is not great due to that
  wallet yeah are you aware of that i'm i'm currently now more self-aware of
  my posture it might be time for an upgrade oh what do you suggest my
  personal suggestion
  is original wallet look at this sleek design do you see it oh wow so sleek
  yeah pretty sleek uh-huh this thing holds up to 12 cards plus cash all in a
  slim durable and stylish package too you took the words right out of my
  mouth ridge wallets feature rfid blocking technology so digital pickpockets
  won't stand a chance plus with their air tag attachment you'll never lose
  your wallet again
  where'd it go i lost my wallet uh i was just checking my air tag easy
  brilliant
  yeah i was recently in the colorado mountains and if i had lost my ridge
  wallet i would have
  no problem tracking it down even in the rockies right now ridge is having
  their once a year
  anniversary sale so get up to 40 off at ridge.com slash cosmic just head to
  ridge.com
  cosmic to see their biggest sale of the year after you purchase they will
  ask about where you heard about them where did they hear about ridge wallet
  right um they heard it here first on american alchemy yeah please support
  our show and tell them our show sent you upgrade your wallet thank me
  later and then i think they do lsd together jfk and mary meyer and and this
  is sort of rumor mill
  stuff so i'm curious to get your take after that jfk because she has this
  mission of like i need to
  like stop these guys after that jfk because she has this mission of like i
  need to like stop these guys
  like her her husband lord meyer and all of his associates are going to like
  blow up the world
  yeah and she is like we need to reign these guys in and she does lsd with
  jfk and then jfk
  kind of he was already more pacifist than them but he he becomes more
  hardcore like we really need to kind of denuclearize he saw the light you
  know and he went through this metanoia as we refer to it this metanoia
  experience about how incredible this was you know and how extraordinarily
  outrageous you know uh uh curtis lemay and the joint chiefs have been you
  know and they'd already proposed to him this operation northwoods you know
  okay because they were so desperate wanting to get castro out of there that
  they were so dedicated in their mission to preserve u.s complete domination
  and control of the whole western hemisphere that they viewed this as an
  absolute horrible affront to have these guys in cuba so they were just
  desperate to get the island overthrown uh and so they kept trying everything
  do it so so the bottom line is when kennedy is is exchanging these letters
  and very important thing that people don't know about is that uh that uh
  khrushchev recommended that in order to verify that they were both complying
  with the actual not only the disassembly but the destruction of the nuclear
  warheads is that they were going to have pope john 23rd broker the whole
  deal and oversee the whole process no way that's all true are you serious
  that's absolutely right khrushchev wrote about this in his letters back no
  they were yes they did it in the letters of going and these letters have you
  seen these letters no but i know what the content of how do you know from
  jesuit headquarters because of because of john john paul the 23rd or john
  the 23rd was going to be the broker but he dies i need to get in with the
  jesuits danny yeah right right you know but but but he dies yeah he dies in
  early june yeah so they were working on trying to get this done so he dies
  in early june and what kennedy decides is that in order to to make up for
  the massive disfunding of the whole nuclear weapons programs in both
  countries in order to have a massive economic stimulus to replace that that
  the he wants to and he proposes to to gorbachev that uh or to khrushchev
  that that they have a joint soviet u.s space program that they completely
  combine their forces and they they overcome the the whole threat of the the
  cold war in that they join forces and going into outer space together and he
  on june 5th of 1962 or 63 rather now of 1963 what he does is he contacts
  mccone the new cia director because he'd already forced into retirement
  dallas and he says he wants to get fully briefed in on the ufo stuff now
  this is this becomes important because i didn't know yeah when i knew found
  out all that stuff i didn't know about this other thing yeah the harold
  malmgren stuff yeah that's right yeah so yeah he asked to get briefed about
  uh you know ufos and
  wants to know more and this is really an important fact john mccone before
  he became director of cia
  after dallas departed was also the uh lead of the atomic energy commission
  he ran the atomic energy
  commission so he definitely would have been privy to all of the secrets when
  it came to ufos given
  Yes.
  connections yes yeah and so he's asking for that and then i can i can give
  you the little malmgren
  piece which is so malmgren harold malmgren was a presidential advisor for
  jfk he was the youngest
  of presidential advisors he was one of mcnamara's whiz kids and mcnamara's
  you know secretary of
  defense at the time malmgren is 27 years old and he's in the situation room
  around the cuban missile
  crisis and at that same time the cuban missile crisis mcnamara had put him
  in charge of
  cost assessments for these new x-ray based missile defense systems and so
  they're doing
  these tests in the marshall islands specifically at johnston atoll and you
  have this these test
  series called um you know uh starfish prime tests and uh one of the tests is
  is the bluegill series
  and this is this kind of x-ray projection in the nose cone of these icbms
  meant to take out incoming nuclear warheads yes which we didn't have great
  nuclear defense at the
  time yeah right and so this was this really exciting experimental thing and
  the rain
  corporation had a paper on it actually earlier and so harold is in charge of
  doing all the cost
  assessing for this and uh he catches wind that in this test a ufo gets
  knocked out of the that comes
  out of the plume of the nuclear blast yes and he freaks out and he says well
  i need to know about
  this and they used to call them tagalongs at the time because they were so
  kind of you know
  yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
  yeah yeah yeah yeah
  immune to or was so casual yeah and uh you know cold war kind of intensity
  was so uh you know i
  don't know it kind of uh just made them think this is yeah like normal thing
  that you have a ufo
  coming out of the plume and he said i need to know i have like all i blink
  at q clearances and um they
  said no you don't you know this is office of naval intelligence and atomic
  energy commission stuff or
  whatever yeah and um so they say okay you can know but you have to you have
  to come to you know sandia
  complex kirtland air force base sandia um where lawrence preston geist who's
  the maternal
  grandfather of jeff bezos can show you these ufo you know they didn't say
  we're going to show you
  these ufo pieces we'll brief you on it yeah yeah and then he goes they show
  him the ufo pieces he
  feels the debris he feels this anomalous debris it speaks to him
  telepathically
  which is remarkable then he insists on getting briefed or he i don't know
  maybe
  bissell reaches out to him but richard bissell who was number two went on to
  become number
  two at the cia but at the time he's deputy director of plans at the cia and
  he was known as the mayor
  of area 51 goes and and briefs him on quote unquote other world technologies
  and all these kind of
  past crash retrievals including magenta of 1933. and so malmgren knows about
  this stuff and then jfk
  i think a couple weeks later a few weeks later ends up at los alamos getting
  briefs getting
  great yeah so it's like is that a coincidence it's probably not well what it
  is is that then kennedy realizes that if if he can give this information to
  khrushchev that'll seal the deal yeah that khrushchev will know that he's
  completely he's dropping this kind of nationalistic competitive thing with
  with russia and that they can have a genuine joint space program and of
  course they need to know about what this extraterrestrial dimension is if
  they're going to be venturing out into space together and so he so but what
  happens is when he demands the briefing from macomb the bissell and the
  other guys tell uh tell dallas about it yeah because bissell in in in
  angleton and the other guys kept going over to see dallas all the time yeah
  in the brownstone over in georgetown because he never left town he just
  stayed right there because the fact of the matter is is that the reason he'd
  been appointed to be the first civilian director of the cia is the fact that
  he was legal counsel for brown brothers harriman this is dallas that's
  dallas allen dallas and that's where the china lobby is that's the group of
  people that had decided long ago that what they would do is secretly fund
  the rise of hitler in germany uh after world war one through the union to to
  the union bank and all that stuff that they set up to have them be raised up
  to be the bulwark against bolshevism in europe yeah and since the the
  investors at brown brothers harriman these two and and that was the initial
  feeder for the cia came out of the brown brothers that's right it was it was
  robert lovett who actually wrote the initial memo to truman saying we've got
  that we've got to reinstitute a major agency like the oss we've got to have
  it in peacetime and it came from robert lovett senior partner at brown
  brothers harriman and so that that whole group was where it was the seat of
  the china lobby who saw the future of investment you know capital investment
  in the asian market and the asian market and the asian market and the asian
  market and the asian market markets because they already owned a controlling
  stock interest in most of the war industry in germany which they'd extracted
  through the versailles treaty agreement long involved in process they did it
  but the bottom line is that when at the end of world war one at the end of
  world war one uh when the treaty of versailles was being signed robert
  lansing who was the secretary of state under wilson dallas's uncle that was
  the uncle of alan in john foster dallas he had married the eldest daughter
  of john w foster who was the maternal grandfather for both alan and and and
  john uh that uh uh john foster so there was john w foster was the the guy
  and he was an arch imperialist he's the guy that overthrew under his when he
  was secretary of state he overthrew the island of hawaii and started taking
  guam and that whole thing focusing on moving into asia well that was the
  whole idea of that and so that what they did in the versailles treaty he got
  robert lansing who was the son-in-law of john w foster had had robert
  lansing his son-in-law bring his two grandsons john foster dallas and alan
  dallas with him to the versailles treaty and actually as lawyers at sullivan
  and cromwell to draft into the into the versailles treaty agreement the war
  reparations requirements.
[56:54] Unknown Guest:
  Germany had to, had to pay war reparations for all the damage
  they'd inflicted on other industries.
  So that made them dependent on the Union Bank.
  Well, what happened was this was even pre-Union Bank.
  This was in 1918.
  And so what
  they did is they said, look, that you're going to have to pay these war
  reparations.
  They imposed
  that financial obligation on them, but they didn't have the money to pay
  them.
  And so what happened
  is the investors in Brown Brothers Harriman, these 2024, you know, robber
  baron families,
  you know, the Rockefellers and, and, and, and Harriman railway people and
  Carnegie and all
  of these guys, Melons, all of them were there.
  Uh, and they saw their future is going, uh, westward
  into Asia because what they could do is they could secure control over
  Europe through Germany.
  Uh,
  and, and what they would do is they would loan the money to Germany to pay
  the war reparations.
  Yeah.
  And they would take as security for their loans, the controlling stock
  interest
  in like a Krupp ball bearing factory and, and IG Farbin and all these other
  major war industries
  making the explosives and chemicals, they would, they would have this stock
  interest.
[58:04] Jeremy Ris:
  A lot of these were kind of operation paperclip based companies, right?
  Like they were,
  they were in some cases started and run by Nazis.
[58:11] Unknown Guest:
  Well, the, the Nazis weren't there really.
  Okay.
  Okay.
  Okay.
  This is only 1918.
  Okay.
  Right.
  And, but so, so what happened is what, what they
  did is, is they set up that mechanism by means of which the stockholders or
  the investors in
  Brown Brothers Harriman called these two dozen wealthy, super wealthy
  families.
  What they did
  is they had the controlling stock interest in those companies.
  And then what they did is they
  additionally loaned additional money to Germany to rebuild their war machine
  so that they could be the
  bulwark against Bolshevism because at the very end of the, of the first
  world war in October of 1917,
  the Bolsheviks.
  Had overthrown czar Nicholas the second and overthrown him and withdrawn
  them from,
  from world war one.
  And so what happened is this, this, this seat of kind of a socialist
  alternative to the kind of investment ideas that were housed at Brown
  Brothers Harriman,
  that they viewed them as this terrible adversary.
  So what they did is they leaned in on Robert
  Lansing, who was the secretary of state and sent a foreign military
  expedition into Russia that
  almost nobody knows about it.
  Now, the full-scale U.S. financed U.S. military, foreign expeditionary force
  into Russia in 1918,
  to try to crush the Bolshevik Revolution.
  Wow, really?
  And they recruited the white Russians, all those kind of czarist Russians
  that were
  in St. Petersburg.
  That whole crowd-
  Was Dulles involved in that?
  Dulles was involved with Germany.
  He was, he was appointed to be the legal counsel for Germany,
  as well as
  legal counsel for Brown Brothers Harriman.
  So he was negotiating both sides
  of these financial agreements,
  so that they had them owning the basic-
[59:57] SPEAKER_14:
  He was the legal counsel for-
[59:59] Unknown Guest:
  Brown Brothers Harriman.
[1:00:00] SPEAKER_14:
  But for Germany, is what it meant?
[1:00:01] Unknown Guest:
  Yes, he was appointed by Robert Lansing, his uncle,
  to be the legal counsel for Germany as well,
  so that he was on both sides of the negotiations.
  He was counseling Germany to accept these loans,
  and to rebuild their war industry,
  and he ended up being basically
  almost the legal governor general,
  working for the German government.
  Whoa.
  And so that's what he did.
  He choreographed that entire thing.
  And so what happened is they got that all set up
  in 1918, 1919, then Robert Lansing
  sent the Foreign Military Expeditionary Force into Russia
  to try to crush the Bolshevik Revolution in the cradle.
[1:00:46] Jeremy Ris:
  Hey everyone, Jesse here.
  Let's talk about something a lot of us quietly deal with,
  hair loss.
  This is something that messes with your confidence
  more than you'd expect.
  Okay, you might be wondering,
  Jesse, you clearly don't suffer from this.
  It's true.
  The biggest issue I face is hat hair.
  I actually have very thick hair,
  but one of my good friends deals with hair loss.
  So when iRestore sent me their iRestore Elite,
  I gifted it to him,
  and I've been amazed at the results it gave him.
  The first thing that stood out to him
  is it's comfortable and easy to use.
  You just pop it on while reading,
  and you're like,
  oh my gosh, that's a lot of hair working,
  and it does its thing.
  This isn't some gimmick.
  It uses 300 lasers and 200 LEDs
  to deliver clinically backed red light therapy
  straight to the scalp.
  This is the best way to stimulate hair growth.
  Over the past few weeks,
  I've seen noticeable improvement with my friend.
  He says that his hair feels thicker and healthier,
  and it's improved his overall confidence in life.
  The iRestore Elite uses triple wavelength technology
  and Lumitec red light therapy.
  It's engineered for deeper penetration,
  that means more stimulation to hair follicles
  and better, faster results.
  And look, if it doesn't work for you,
  they offer a 12-month money-back guarantee.
  I've never heard of a money-back guarantee
  that lasts that long.
  Try it consistently, and if you're not happy,
  they get you your money back.
  Of course, the restocking fee applies.
  That made it a no-brainer for my friend.
  So give yourself the gift of hair confidence this spring.
  For a limited time only,
  our listeners get a huge discount on iRestore Elite
  when you use code JESSE, J-E-S-S,
  J-E-S-S-E, at iRestore.com.
  Head over to iRestore.com and use code JESSE, J-E-S-S-E,
  for our show's exclusive discounts on the iRestore Elite.
  Please support our show and tell them we sent you.
  Hair loss is frustrating.
  You don't have to fight it alone, thanks to iRestore.
  But let's get back to, okay, so 63.
  So he's aware of UFOs and trying to do
  some joint space program with Khrushchev around that.
  Yes.
  He is trying to defang the American nuclear arsenal.
  He is trying to defang the American nuclear arsenal,
  but also have-
[1:02:47] News Clip:
  Also the Russian arsenal.
[1:02:48] Jeremy Ris:
  Soviets, yeah, denuclearize and tie a mutual disarmament.
  Yes.
  And he is trying to take the country back,
  the U.S. back from this kind of military.
[1:02:57] Unknown Guest:
  And China agreed.
  China agreed that they would not pursue any-
  Interesting.
  Nuclear program at all.
  Do we have records of that or?
  Yes, oh yeah.
  Really? Oh yes.
  Where are the records of that?
  That there's, they can dig them out
  because they reached out to China.
  They reached out to China.
  They only had like-
  He reached out to Mao.
  They had a real early interest in kind of trying to deal
  with the nuclear weapons issue,
  but they hadn't really mounted a program.
  And he agreed to forestall the entire thing.
  Really?
  Mm-hmm.
  No way.
  So at that point,
  at that point in between basically January of 1963
  and June of 1963, at least prior to when John XXIII died,
  that that was still kind of a totally viable,
  viable operation that they were planning to do.
  And then when John XXIII died,
  I think Kennedy leaned forward into it
  to try to make sure that the thing kept on going.
  And so he decided he was going to get the information
  for Khrushchev and give it to him
  as a further sign of good faith
  so that they could not only have a complete open
  and honest relationship by putting some skin in the game,
  by coughing up the information we had about this,
  but also prepare for who they were going to be encountering,
  you know, out in extraterrestrial civilization.
  You know, and what happened is on June 5th,
  when he asked for it, the Bissell,
  it's almost certain it was Bissell,
  you know, found out about it, you know, and told Dulles.
  And so Dulles and the guy said,
  really, wait, they can't allow the nuclear missiles
  to be disassembled because they have to have them.
  They have to have them to deal with China, you know,
  because China had demonstrated already in Korea
  that they could put a billion men in uniform
  and just melt your gun barrels down
  by just pouring them on you,
  like they did up at Incheon and at the reservoir,
  you know, that that's what they did.
  They just sent in like a billion guys, you know,
  and just stormed them.
  And so they realized that they could not take on China
  in the future in a conditional land war.
  So they did the new plan.
  They did the nuclear weapons.
  That's why MacArthur kept saying,
  what we gotta do is show them, bomb them, you know,
  that whole thing, that fallout with Truman.
  So the bottom line is that China lobby freaked out
  about potentially losing their nuclear option against China.
  He said that we can't allow that to happen
  and we can't wait a year for the elections, you know?
  I mean, you know, they can probably figure out
  how to get rid of him in the election, you know,
  but they couldn't wait the year because he would,
  or to start ordering the disassembly.
  And so what happened is that when he,
  when on that June 5th,
  that he ended up issuing the demand for the,
  he did the same thing, the same day,
  he did this weird thing,
  which I've never been to quite figure out yet,
  about the printing these silver certificates.
  He did that on June 5th too.
  Interesting.
  He did a whole bunch of these things.
[1:06:12] Jeremy Ris:
  Okay, that's, I met Oliver Stonewall, you know,
  Stonewall, and he connects the printing
  of the silver certificates with JFK's assassination.
  Like that was somehow undermining of.
[1:06:21] Unknown Guest:
  Well, he was doing a lot of radical things right there.
  Yeah, because I think that what happened was
  when John XXIII died, you know, Kennedy,
  he was hoping to bring John XXIII in
  and kind of Catholic support for what he was doing,
  the ethics of what he was doing,
  the whole speech at George Washington University,
  and all that stuff, you know,
  he was going through this real metanoia at that time,
  you know, but the act of disassembling
  and destroying the nuclear warheads
  was viewed by Dulles and the guys as an act of treason,
  you know, and not only that,
  but it was eliminating their ability to actually quell China,
  you know, and to be able to have access to the market,
  the Asian market.
  So what he did is just green-lighted the S-Force, you know, and he was able
  to do that.
[1:07:15] Jeremy Ris:
  So this is this kind of sleeper cell.
  Yeah, they're just.
  Select group of Traficante Cuban exiles
  who are these kind of killer assassins
  that were originally commissioned
  to take out Che Guevara and Castro,
  and he re-operationalizes them to take out JFK.
  All he had to do was just get up off their neck.
  So who were the three,
  who were the two men on the grassy knoll?
  Who were they?
[1:07:39] Unknown Guest:
  Well, we know that Morales was the shooter.
  Okay.
  Because he was the guy.
  We know that Rip Robertson was there.
[1:07:48] Jeremy Ris:
  Were they the two men on the grassy knoll?
[1:07:50] Unknown Guest:
  Or was Morales on the grassy knoll?
  Morales was on the grassy knoll.
  Okay, so he took the shot from the grassy knoll.
  He took the shot from the grassy knoll.
  Wow.
  That was he.
  Wow.
  The thing that I find to be,
  in a certain sense, so special about what we now know
  that actually happened is the peculiar aspect of this
  is the relationship that Oswald had with all these guys.
  And then you look at the,
  what's come out about Oswald's landlady.
  She's a super curious character.
  She's still alive, bro.
[1:08:21] Jeremy Ris:
  She's like 93.
[1:08:22] Unknown Guest:
  No way.
  Ruth Payne is her name.
[1:08:24] Jeremy Ris:
  Ruth Payne, that's right.
  And she somehow was connected
  with Dulles' mistress, Bancroft.
  Am I making that up?
[1:08:33] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah, no, this is correct.
  She actually vacationed the summer of 1963
  at a place called Nashawn Island,
  which is right up near Martha's Vineyard.
  In Massachusetts.
  And Nashawn Island is owned by the Forbes family.
  That's John Kerry Forbes,
  the guy who ran against Bush in 2004, right?
  They were both skull and bones.
  They both went to Yale Secret Society.
  The Forbes family hosted this summer retreat
  at their mansion, Ruth Payne's there,
  with Allen Dulles, Allen Dulles' mistress.
  What they discussed is, again,
  that's not gonna be in the JFK files.
  It's not gonna be in the Kennedy files.
[1:09:08] Jeremy Ris:
  What year were they together there?
[1:09:11] Unknown Guest:
  63.
  So right there.
  So right after she leaves Nashawn Island,
  I think either before she went to Nashawn
  or after, she visits her sister in Virginia.
  Turns out her sister works for the CIA.
  That's come out.
  Whoa.
  Then she goes, picks up Lee and Marina in New Orleans
  and brings them to Dallas, gives them a home,
  hooks Lee up with his job
  at the School Book Depository building,
  which, by the way, the School Book Depository building
  is an interesting, it's owned by D. Harold Byrd.
  Dry Hole Byrd is, David Harold Byrd is his real name,
  but they call him Dry Hole Byrd
  because he was against something called
  the oil depletion allowance.
  He's an oil man.
  And Kennedy wanted to get rid of this oil depletion allowance,
  which would have made all the oil people
  have to basically pay a ton of money.
  They wouldn't get this government tax break from Uncle Sam.
  So they were all, they all hated Kennedy.
  They wanted him gone for that reason.
  That's why you have the oil, big oil element,
  and big oil goes back way long in history.
  There's a whole book by Daniel Yergin called,
  The Prize.
  And there's a Prize Part Two,
  where he talks about the whole history of oil
  with John D. Rockefeller,
  and how he bought out all the railroads
  and would only ship his oil through the railroads
  so he could basically have a monopoly over the oil business
  because none of the other oil companies could ship their oil
  because he owned all the railroads.
  And that's why in monopoly you own all the railroads.
  It's part of the game.
  And again, he shut all the business and competition out
  and they were eventually disbanded with the Antitrust Act.
  And that broke up all the monopolies, supposedly.
  But a lot of these oil people have a real dangerous history
  of murder and conspiracy going way back to then,
  and just doing terrible things.
  So yeah, those guys are involved.
  And then D. Harold Byrd, in addition to being an oil man,
  he also buys a bunch of stock in this company called LTV,
  Ling Temco Vought.
  And he owns this big share in Vought Aerospace.
  Well, it turns out,
  Vought Aerospace built all the flying saucers
  for Wright-Patterson in the 40s and 50s
  under a guy named Alfred C. Loading.
  Wait, wait, what?
[1:11:19] Jeremy Ris:
  Yeah.
  Really?
  Yeah.
  What do you mean?
  When you say built the flying saucers,
  like built the Avrocar project,
  which is on record as flying saucers?
  Well, the Avrocar project was Canada.
  So that was-
  But then it got moved to Wright-Patt
  as Project Y or Silverbug. Yeah, okay.
  Yeah.
  But like, so when you say built flying saucers, because- So the Vought
  Flying Pancake is a Vought aircraft.
[1:11:40] Unknown Guest:
  It's literally an attempt,
  really attempt to build a flying saucer with propellers.
[1:11:44] Jeremy Ris:
  That was before Avrocar, in the 40s.
[1:11:46] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah, it was way before.
  This was even pre-dates then.
[1:11:49] Jeremy Ris:
  That's so interesting.
  I didn't even heard of this.
[1:11:51] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  That's so, wow.
  It's very obscure.
  It's not well known.
  And then LTV, Ling Temco Vought,
  he gives a bunch of money with Ling
  and they invest in this
  right before the Kennedy assassination.
  And of course, Aerospace and all those people
  made a ton of money off the Kennedy assassination.
  And then you have Deep Space
  Aerospace Connections,
  Deep State Aerospace Connections to Lee Harvey Oswald,
  because he worked at Atsugi,
  which is where the CIA was running the U-2 spy plane program.
  Whoa.
  You know, so.
[1:12:23] Jeremy Ris:
  Well also, I believe Harold Bird,
  who owned the Texas Book Depository,
  he was, I think had some connections with LBJ.
  And then he was also connected with Curtis LeMay.
  Curtis LeMay gave him an award for the Civil Air Corps
  when he was younger.
  Yes.
  And Curtis LeMay hated JFK.
  Absolutely.
  And thought that he was kind of a traitor.
[1:12:45] Unknown Guest:
  LBJ too.
  And there's pictures of LBJ and D Harold Bird together
  like going to football games,
  and they were good friends,
  so they definitely knew each other, definitely.
[1:12:56] Jeremy Ris:
  Maybe the craziest thing of all.
  JFK, we're painting a picture of him
  just being 360 surrounded by these like spooky people.
  The mayor of Dallas was a guy named Earl Cabell.
  Yeah.
  His brother. His brother Charles.
  Because Charles was Dulles' number two at the CIA.
[1:13:14] Unknown Guest:
  And the Bay of Pigs. There you go.
  Yeah.
[1:13:17] Jeremy Ris:
  And Earl rerouted JFK's motorcade.
[1:13:21] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  So like that.
  They took it right by D. Harold Byrd's building.
[1:13:25] Jeremy Ris:
  Right in D. B. Plaza.
  It's like, come on.
[1:13:27] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  Now it gets even deeper.
  It does here.
  Yeah.
  It's crazy, bro.
  Because, you know, D. Harold Byrd, you know that he's a big hunter, right?
  He went, after JFK got assassinated, he went to Africa on a safari and shot
  a bunch of
  elephants, brought their heads back, and had them mounted on the wall in his
  big trophy
  room.
  A big trophy room full of all the animal heads that he, of all the animals
  he killed and
  shot.
  Yeah.
  You know what else he did?
  He took the window out of the 6th floor depository building and he put it in
  his trophy room
  at his house.
[1:13:57] SPEAKER_13:
  What?
  Why?
  What reason for that?
  No way.
  That's crazy.
[1:14:04] Jeremy Ris:
  That's fucking weird.
[1:14:05] Unknown Guest:
  Whoa.
  That is like, dude, that's red flags.
  That is huge.
  Huge.
  Huge red flags.
  And the fact that Ruth Payne knows D. Harold Byrd, she brings the Oswalds to
  Dallas, gives
  them this house to live in, and then all after the assassination, they go to
  Ruth Payne's
  garage, find all the evidence that, and then about a month after the
  assassination, after
  the FBI has already searched the home extensively, Ruth Payne comes and
  says, oh, me and Marina
  found this other note that he left for Marina, supposedly where he wrote
  Marina a note when
  he supposedly went to go shoot General Walker and left her a note.
  But they found this all after the case.
  And then they've used that to blame the shooting of Edwin Walker on Lee
  Harvey Oswald.
  He's, oh, he's, you know, he's killing this, you know, anti-communist
  general, which is
  really weird because, you know, it doesn't make sense with the narrative of,
  you know,
  what is he just trying to kill someone to get famous?
  Is that who we think Lee Harvey Oswald is?
  You know, the people get, oh, poor Oswald, you know, it was just this
  innocent guy who
  was just a weirdo and he was just a fall guy, you know, and didn't have
  anything to do with
  it.
  It's not true at all.
[1:15:12] SPEAKER_02:
  He was CIA trained.
[1:15:13] Unknown Guest:
  Well, he was actually trained by the Office of Naval Intelligence.
  It wasn't CIA. Interesting.
  And he was in this thing called Operation Redskin.
  It was a whole different operation.
  But the bottom line is he ended up being part of this thing that was called
  the Field Intelligence.
  And it was a kind of a private spying operation, a political spying
  operation that was going
  on.
  The William D. Pauly and...
  Hunt, E. H. Hunt, and a lot of guys, they were funding it.
  And that was Willoughby, George Willoughby, Charles Willoughby, rather,
  because when Truman
  got not fired, Truman wasn't fired.
  He was...
[1:15:54] Jeremy Ris:
  So what were these operations Lee Harvey Oswald was involved in?
[1:15:57] Unknown Guest:
  He was doing spying.
  He was doing spying on progressive groups around New Orleans, working with
  Guy Bannister.
[1:16:07] Jeremy Ris:
  It was true.
  Guy Bannister is the FBI guy.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  He's known as like the head of the X-Files, like he's on the weird desk of
  the FBI.
  And so he hit what was 555 Camp Street.
  Is that right?
  Yeah.
  555 Camp Street.
  And so Lee Harvey Oswald is working out of that building.
  That building mysteriously gets burned down, right?
  By Novell.
[1:16:28] Unknown Guest:
  Gordon Novell is the guy that was arrested and prosecuted by James Garrison
  in New Orleans
  for burning down 555 Camp Street, the office where...
  Where Lee Oswald had the office along with...
  What was his name?
  The guy that was the hardcore right-wing guy that was the head of the Latin
  American Anti-Communist League.
  One of the guy that was the former FBI guy that was down in New Orleans.
  The heck was that guy's name?
  But anyway, he had an office in the same...
  He had an office in the exact same building, on the exact same floor, whoa,
  with him.
  And Gordon Novell was prosecuted and convicted for burning down that
  building in the midst of the investigation.
  That's crazy.
[1:17:27] Jeremy Ris:
  Okay, who ends up later in the UFO conversation, you know, in means of
  working...
  Who tried to hire me as his lawyer.
  Robert Bigelow and stuff. Yeah, yeah.
  Okay, so this is all so crazy.
  Yeah.
  So what is Lee Harvey Oswald doing exactly?
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
[1:17:42] Unknown Guest:
  He is, in addition to spying on the different liberal liberal groups like
  ACLU and other
  things that he's doing and filing reports with this field intelligence
  operation going on,
  that what he's doing is he's infiltrating the free Cuba group and pretending
  to be a
  Marxist, you know, just like when he went to Russia and did all that stuff.
  And so what he was doing is he was designing a character of being a Marxist.
  being, uh, involved with Russia and with, uh, with Cuba.
  Uh, and what, what the, the plan was
  is to coax him into taking a shot at the motorcade, not hitting anybody, but
  taking a shot at the
  motorcade.
  Uh, and then he would, uh, he would, uh, escape, but they would have, they
  figure out
  who it was, there's the gun and there's who he is and that they would blame
  it on Cuba and they
  could get back to invading the Island.
  You know, again, it was the same guys, the same card,
  hardcore right-wing guys that are into this.
  And so he's, he's all put into place that can't take
  this shot at the motorcade and then run and escape.
  Uh, and what happens, he takes the shot
  at the motorcade, hits the curb and chips the, the, the curb, the pieces of
  the cement flying
  and immediately these other shots ring out, uh, and kill the president.
[1:19:04] Jeremy Ris:
  So you think Oswald missed?
[1:19:06] Unknown Guest:
  Oh, he didn't miss.
  He wasn't intending to hit him.
[1:19:09] Jeremy Ris:
  He wasn't even, what was the, what was the point really?
[1:19:11] Unknown Guest:
  The point was to have a fire, a gun, a shot fired at the motorcade to be a,
  a bungled attempt to
  assassinate the president and blame it on Oswald, who was a Cuban operations
  guy so that they could
  then justify invading the Island.
  Yeah.
  That's, that was the whole plan, very subtle plan.
  And
  he was involved in that part.
  And when he fired the shot.
[1:19:35] Jeremy Ris:
  Why didn't they end up using?
  Him as, oh, like he was this Cuban operative.
  Cause they didn't, that didn't end up being
  the narrative.
  Like we need to retaliate against Cuba.
[1:19:43] Unknown Guest:
  Well, be because, because he killed, he killed, uh, uh, uh, Tippett, the
  police officer was sent
  to kill him, you know, cause the whole idea is there's a dead guy, there's a
  lone gunman,
  dead guy, you know, that he took the shot at the president, you rotten
  bastards, you know,
  you're a Cuban, you know, spy and, you know, and what was his association
  with Cuba prior?
  He was, uh, he, he was part of the, uh, uh, free Cuba group.
  He, he infiltrated the group.
  That was when he got arrested on the street.
  Remember by, by, you know, sitting on the street
  corner championing Cuba.
  Where, what year is this?
  In the 1963. Okay.
  1963.
[1:20:25] Jeremy Ris:
  And he's, he's chanting free Cuba like in New Orleans or where?
  In, uh, in New Orleans.
  Okay.
  Yeah.
[1:20:31] Unknown Guest:
  This is amazing.
  Yeah.
  So, so he, he was creating this character. Yeah.
  Who was, uh.
  Who was kind of a zany guy who'd been to Russia and it was a, in favoring
  Cuba.
  And then he was going to take a shot at the, uh, thing.
  And he thought he was supposed to help get escaped.
  Yeah.
  The whole theory was he was going to, they were going to help him escape.
  Yeah.
  Uh, and then, but they were going to blame it on him, but he's already in
  some safe haven.
[1:20:53] Jeremy Ris:
  But in reality, they were just going to take him out.
  They were going to kill him.
[1:20:55] Unknown Guest:
  And then he killed Tippett.
  That's right.
  Sort of fungled the plan.
  As soon as he saw Tippett, he just killed him.
  Wow.
  You know, and, uh, and got arrested for it.
  Yeah.
  You know, and, uh, and so then that's why he kept saying, wait a second.
  I'm just a patsy here.
  Something's wrong.
  I like some legal representation, but these police officers have not allowed
  me to, to
  have any.
  I, uh, I don't know what this is all about.
  To kill the president?
  No, sir.
  I didn't.
  People keep asking me that.
  Sir?
  To shoot the president?
  I work in that building.
  Were you in the building at the time?
  Naturally, if I work in that building, yes, sir.
  Back up, man.
  Did you shoot the president?
  No, they're taking me in because of the fact that I live in the Soviet
  Union.
  What time did he leave the building?
  I'm just a patsy.
  To kill the president?
  And he tried to place the call.
  Yeah.
  He asked for the telephone call.
  Yeah.
  To Nag's head.
  Yeah.
  Which is Redskin.
  That was, that was the whole operation where he was dipped.
  That's a good, he was dipped, ship dipped.
  He was erased.
  Yeah.
  And, and so, so the bottom line and that whole thing, the, the role of him,
  you
  know, it really disappoints half of the, the, the Castro or the, the Kennedy
  assassination community.
  Oh no.
  Wait a second.
  He's supposed to be a.
  Completely innocent guy.
  Didn't have anything to do with it.
  You know, wasn't involved with these people at all.
  And they're just these weird things, you know, that, uh, that, uh, garrison
  in,
  in, in New Orleans was way off base, you know, but he wasn't, you know,
  that,
  that whole crowd was part of that, you know, in Guy Bannister and that whole
  crowd, Bannister was the head of the, the Central American chapter of the
  World Anti-Communist League.
  Wow.
  You know? Wow.
  Uh, you know, that's, that's who they are, you know, and that's what he was
  part of.
  Mm-hmm.
  Uh.
  And, uh, and so that, that's, that's how the, that's how the thing came
  down.
  And of course, as soon as it happened, all the people that knew about the
  S-Force said, holy shit, it's the S-Force.
  You know, there's, there's, uh, Rip Robertson, photographs of Rip Robertson,
  who's the field, field operations commander for the S-Force, standing
  right there in Dilley Plaza, you got Ed Lansdale, you know, the photographs
  of Lansdale sitting right there and his wife identifying him, you know?
  Wow.
  Uh, and so the, the, you, you got the.
  The S-Force is in town.
  Wow.
  I mean, you see a Philip Fida, uh, Felipe Fidal Santiago on the grassy
  knoll.
  This guy's like a radio man.
  He looks like a Cuban.
  He's out of place.
  And he's sitting, he's sitting right next to the umbrella man.
  And the umbrella man's never been really solved.
  They, they came out with this guy.
  They said was the umbrella man in the, in 74 at the house select committee.
  That's not the dude.
  Come on now.
  And there was a different guy there with the umbrella symbolizing you didn't
  have
  the umbrella to, of the air support to help with the bay of pigs.
  And now we're gonna get you.
  And also being the signal man on the grassy knoll, did you know that there
  were three yellow painted lines right on the side of the curb where the shot
  in,
  in conjunction where all the shots took place in the, in the kill zone and
  they
  were painted the night before cuz Beverly Oliver was standing on one and she
  can
  be seen in the, in the Zapruder film standing on the yellow curb on the edge
  of the edge of the sidewalk on Elm street.
  And she got yellow paint all over her shoe cuz it was
  freshly painted the night before.
  Now there's no parking on Elm street, so there's no reason to paint the
  curb.
  Yeah.
  Yellow, everyone, everyone knows there's no parking there.
  It's an on-ramp to the freeway to the Stemmons freeway.
  You know, nobody, nobody pulls over there and parks.
  So there's no reason to paint the curb unless you're marking
  the, the shots for the kill zone.
[1:24:18] Jeremy Ris:
  Were there any other actors or, or people worthy of consideration
  as far as the involvement here?
[1:24:25] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  I mean, the, the, the, the, the question is to how many of the people in
  Brown
  brothers, Harriman mm-hmm had to sign off on this mm-hmm you know, other
  than Dulles.
  Mm-hmm.
  Uh,
  and the, the, the real power was sort of in Sullivan and Cromwell mm-hmm
  that whole
  law firm mm-hmm you know, that that's not a normal law firm, Sullivan and
  Cromwell mm-hmm
  that was legal counsel for Brown brothers, Harriman mm-hmm the Cromwell of
  Sullivan
  and Cromwell is the guy that choreographed the, the, uh, overthrowing of the
  Panamanian
  government mm-hmm to build the Panama canal mm-hmm mm-hmm I mean, it's, it's
  sort of,
  it was sort of like, uh, uh, Williams and Connolly mm-hmm I understand.
  Yeah.
  You know, it's not like a normal law firm.
  Gotcha.
  No, that's like.
  Like Sullivan and Cromwell mm-hmm was that mm-hmm back at those times.
  So, so the, the bottom line is that's what happened and then as soon as the
  people realized
  what had happened, they said, shit is the S force mm-hmm you know, and so we
  gotta do
  everything in our power to cover this thing up mm-hmm because anybody finds
  out it's the
  S force mm-hmm they're gonna track it all the way back through mm-hmm to the
  agency
  mm-hmm and they're gonna blame this on the agency mm-hmm uh, whereas it
  wasn't the agency
  as such that did it, it was Dulles mm-hmm you know, in his capacity as the
  basically
  for Brown Brothers Harriman mm-hmm you know, in that whole China lobby
  operation
  mm-hmm and so the agency went to great lengths to conceal this uh, and then
  they briefed LBJ LBJ
  goes and gets a hold of Earl Warren and says, justice Warren, chief justice
  Warren,
  you gotta chair this commission cuz we really gotta quell any of these
  concerns about a
  conspiracy mm-hmm and look at one thing that you gotta do and, and he didn't
  wanna do it.
  And so he said, look, let me tell you why you have to do this.
  He said,
  because it says you've got to be sure to conceal the fact that there was an
  assassination team
  that was, that was assigned to try to kill Castro.
  And it was the Kennedys that put it together.
  And if the word gets out that there was an assassination team that Kennedy
  put together
  to try to kill Castro, everybody's gonna believe that Castro found out about
  it and killed the
  president.
  And if that happens, you know, people are gonna go crazy and they're gonna
  try to make
  us invade Cuba.
  And if we do that, Russia's gonna cause a world war.
  And he, they lie to, to chief justice, Warren to or
  and what people do is people, when they get little pieces of the
  information, they say, oh,
  this is the agency that killed him.
  Yeah.
  You know, and they kill him because he screwed up the Bay of pigs.
  Did they get all this information?
  They did.
[1:27:07] Jeremy Ris:
  Did they get Jack Ruby to kill?
  What happened with Jack Ruby?
  I mean, that's all the mob.
  They said, wait, holy shit, we've messed up here.
  How did they manipulate Jack Ruby into killing Lee Harvey Oswald?
[1:27:19] Unknown Guest:
  He was a made man.
  He was a made man of the mob.
  You know, when they tell you...
[1:27:25] Jeremy Ris:
  Do you think they MKUltured him because he says he didn't remember killing
  Lee Harvey Oswald for a long time?
  No, I don't think that's true.
[1:27:31] Unknown Guest:
  You don't think so?
[1:27:31] Jeremy Ris:
  But that, okay, but so then, yeah, maybe not, you know, for the actual
  killing.
  But then he ends up in jail, and he claims that he doesn't remember killing
  Lee Harvey Oswald, but is pretty lucid.
  And then he's seen court-ordered by a psychiatrist who is on record as being
  part of MKUltra, a guy named Jolly West,
  who has letters between him and Sidney Gottlieb.
  We, you know, are fairly sure that he was involved in CIA mind control
  stuff.
  And he sees Jack Ruby for 24 hours, totally not filmed, you know, and comes
  out.
  Jack Ruby has a...
  He has a psychotic break.
  And he starts, you know, saying that there are Jews outside his jail cell
  screaming or whatever, and is never the same after that.
  And Jolly West does a press conference saying Jack Ruby has gone crazy.
  You know, he's lost his marbles or whatever.
  Yeah.
  And so...
  So he can't depend on anything he says.
  Yeah.
  I mean, that's got to be pretty...
  But that would imply that the first time around, he wasn't MKUltra because
  maybe he had something to share, and they needed to scramble his brain to
  cover it up.
[1:28:35] Unknown Guest:
  No, no, no.
  And the thing is, is that just following Occam's razor, you get a real
  simple line and narrative of what really happened.
  And then all kinds of activities that are undertaken to cover up and conceal
  this, you know, end up being interpreted as your principal involved in
  making the plan to kill him.
  Because it makes...
  It satisfies people's other more sinister worldview.
  Right.
  But the bottom line is that the threat that it was going to...
  The threat that it was going to come unraveled happened with the Watergate
  burglary.
  Mm-hmm.
  Because what happened is when, as soon as the Democratic National Committee
  chooses Larry O'Brien...
  Yeah.
  ...to be the new head of the Democratic National Committee, it turns out
  previously, 20 years, he was the chief lobbyist for Howard Hughes in
  Washington.
[1:29:24] Jeremy Ris:
  This is an amazing part of your narrative, which is that Larry O'Brien is
  the number two or chief lobbyist for Howard Hughes.
  Howard Hughes was responsible on behalf of Nixon.
  Nixon was responsible on behalf of Nixon for setting up, you know, the
  S-Force... That's right.
  ...and working with Traficante.
  Yep.
  And so Nixon is, because he was a longtime political opponent of JFK, is
  freaked out that he's, because he's running for president later...
  Yes, yes.
  ...in the, you know, so this is in the 70s.
  He says, he's freaked out that basically Larry O'Brien is going to out him
  as having killed his longtime political opponent, even though he set up the
  S-Force not to kill JFK.
[1:30:03] News Clip:
  That's right, that's right.
  To kill Castro.
[1:30:03] Jeremy Ris:
  It was to take out Castro and Schenker.
[1:30:05] News Clip:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  That's right.
[1:30:05] Jeremy Ris:
  But he's freaked out that they have compromise on him. That's right.
  And if you look at what happened in the Watergate scandal, the burglary...
  That's right.
  ...it's James McCord is involved.
  You represented him...
  Yes.
  ...you know, in the one, afterwards.
  Yeah.
  McCord was known as Dulles' number two and his favorite guy or whatever.
  It was, you know, his favorite understudy. Mm-hmm.
  And they put, they bugged Larry O'Brien's phone.
[1:30:28] Unknown Guest:
  And bugged his office.
  So clearly...
  That's right.
[1:30:30] Jeremy Ris:
  ...they were targeting him.
  And Nixon was way up against McGovern.
  And in the polls in that election.
[1:30:36] SPEAKER_02:
  Oh, yeah.
  Oh, yeah.
  Walk away.
[1:30:36] Jeremy Ris:
  So you always have to ask the question, was it like, he was paranoid, but
  was he that
  paranoid?
  Like, why would he do that if it weren't this sort of specific thing he was
  worried about?
[1:30:45] Unknown Guest:
  That's right.
  That's right.
  Because if O'Brien were to reveal the fact that he's the one that created
  the assassination
  team...
  Uh-huh.
  ...that in fact killed the president, there's no way you can talk your way
  out of that... Yeah.
  ...in an election here.
  From June, between June and November, he's not going to climb out from under
  that.
  And so he said, we've got to...
  We've got to find out whether O'Brien knows about it and is thinking at all
  about using
  it.
  So we've got to not only wiretap his telephone, but bug his office.
  That's amazing.
  And that's what they did.
  And they sent him in to do it.
  So you then are the lawyer for James McCord.
  Well, it was Bailey.
  It was Bailey himself.
  Okay.
  Because Bailey, it turns out, was on index four for the agency.
  Okay.
  Which we didn't know.
  Okay.
[1:31:27] Jeremy Ris:
  You know, none of us knew it in the office.
  Did you learn anything from those guys about, like, spooky intel world?
  Or, like, did any of them sort of reveal any secret?
  Like, McCord...
  Did you interact with McCord at all?
[1:31:40] Unknown Guest:
  No.
  Okay.
  No.
  But I knew that McCord was...
  Didn't want to plead guilty.
  He was refusing to plead guilty.
  He said, why am I pleading guilty?
  You know, that we got...
  Because he had been told that they were going in to try to find evidence
  that O'Brien and
  the other guys were coordinating and financing anti-war demonstrators.
  Yeah.
  And he wanted to get that information.
  So he thought he was involved in kind of a typical kind of, you know, I
  guess, meat
  and potatoes kind of covert operation by the agency.
  And they've been instructed that if you get caught doing a covert operation
  for the agency
  stateside, which is totally illegal, call one of the people on the index
  four.
  You know, there's William Bennett Williams, and then there's Bailey, and
  there was this
  other guy, Miller, I knew about.
  You know, but I didn't know anything.
  I didn't know any of that when Bailey contacted me and asked me to come over
  to his shop to
  be special counsel, you know, for the burglary case.
[1:32:43] Jeremy Ris:
  I want to pivot slightly.
  It's the same sort of, you know, world that we're talking about here.
  But you have a very interesting narrative about how some of maybe the
  initial financing
  occurs for secret covert UFO programs in America.
  Oh, yeah.
  And you talk about this Anderson Trust and, you know, billions.
  Billions of dollars worth of lost gold.
  $1.2 trillion.
  There you go.
  At $32 an ounce.
[1:33:10] Unknown Guest:
  Unbelievable.
  Which is now $3,400 an ounce.
[1:33:13] Jeremy Ris:
  So what's the story there?
[1:33:16] Unknown Guest:
  Well, what happened is back in about 2000, it was just like 2000, year 2000,
  that Mr.
  Aiea, who is like the third richest fellow in the entire Philippines, you
  know, contacts
  the Jesuit headquarters that he wanted to, he wanted to have somebody from
  the Jesuit
  headquarters because he'd gone to a Jesuit high school and college and stuff
  and wanted
  them to come and brief the top 50 business people in the Philippines about
  what the consequences
  of global climate change were going to be for the island, you know, with the
  rising
  sea levels is going to swamp parts of the island and ruin businesses.
  And so trying to see if they would mobilize the business community to do
  something about
  it.
  Right.
  So I got designated.
  I got designated to go brief him.
  So I fly, I fly to the Philippines and Mr. Aiea puts me up in this like 20
  star hotel,
  you know, with these, this sumptuous food everywhere, all this bizarre kind
  of offensive
  kind of opulence.
  And I go brief these guys and I tell them that what they should do is they
  should try
  to mobilize and get the government of the Philippines, which they had some
  influence
  with these rich businessmen.
  You know, to lead a, the, uh, uh, association of island states, uh, in the
  United Nations
  to mobilize a, uh, a motion on the floor of the general assembly to have a
  uniting for
  peace resolution, to have the island states all joined together and accused
  the United
  States and, uh, and China and India of, uh, aggressive activities, ruining
  their national
  security by the fostering and promoting of the fossil.
  Fuels, they're swamping their islands and ruining their country.
  Uh, and if you can get, if I told him, if you can get two thirds of all the
  members
  of the general assembly, the 193 countries at that time, you know, to
  support such a
  resolution, you can get an investigation done.
  Uh, and if you can get three fourths of them to vote for a resolution,
  ordering those countries
  to start cutting back on all of their, the use of petroleum, you can enforce
  it.
  And the security council can't veto.
  It okay.
  So I explained that all to them.
  Uh, and then, uh, Mr.
  Ayat drives me up to his big mansion on top of the mountain overlooking
  Manila, and we're
  sitting there, you know, sipping lemonade at the afternoon.
  And he said, you know, uh, would you like to meet the, the president of the
  Senate of
  the Philippines?
  And I said, yeah, that would be really helpful if we could get right to
  them, you know?
  And he said, well, let me, let me get ahold of him.
  He gets up and leaves and goes in.
  He makes a call.
  He comes back just good.
  Let's go down and see him.
  So we go get in his big Cadillac.
  We drive down off the hill.
  He walks into the, to the office of the president of the Senate says hi to
  the secretary.
  And we just walk in, we sit down.
  He introduces me to Senator Pimentel, who is the president of the, of the
  Philippine Senate.
  And, uh, I'm briefing him on this, how to go about, you know, spearheading,
  organizing the association of Island States to bring on a motion under the
  uniting for peace resolution.
  Yeah.
  And, uh, he's, he's listening to me, but he doesn't seem particularly
  enthralled about it all.
  Uh, and so then he, he casually gets up and goes over and he closes the door
  and comes and sits back down.
  He said, well, I should tell you, he said, as the president of the, of the
  Senate, you know, I chair a thing called the blue ribbon commission and the
  blue
  ribbon commission is charged with finding these 176 troves of treasure that
  have
  been buried in the Philippines by general Yakushima at the, uh,
  end of, uh, world war two.
  Uh, and each of them, uh, has like a hundred billion dollars of gold and
  silver, uh, in the platinum bars and big 50 gallon drums of diamonds and
  rubies
  and precious jewels that have all been pilfered by a special unit of the
  Japanese
  army that was deployed all during the 1930s before world war two started,
  uh, as
  a treasure, a war chest for the, the war.
[1:37:32] SPEAKER_02:
  Because they were, and they were worried about.
[1:37:34] Jeremy Ris:
  Being invaded or taken.
[1:37:35] Unknown Guest:
  Well, they, yeah, because they, they knew that, that once the Germans had
  surrendered
  in may of 1945, it was just a matter of time that the U S was going to
  invade the
  island, you know, and, and take them down.
  Uh, and so they, they were going to move all of the treasure out of there,
  uh, out
  of Japan and they're going to bury it.
  And they were going to sign general Yakushima himself to oversee all that.
  And they were going to send the, uh, the cousin, I think of, uh, of,
  uh, Hiroshito, you know, uh, to, uh, a prince, Japanese prince of the royal
  family to accompany them.
  So he would know where all 176 of these treasure troves were.
  Uh, and so they sent them into the islands and they started moving the gold
  out in
  the last months of the war and they buried it, uh, and they buried them in
  these like,
  you know, like, you know, 500, 600 feet deep, you know, big wells like that
  they
  drilled, uh, and then they were using, uh,
  prisoners of war to do the digging and then burying the team that dug that
  particular hole, burying them with the gold so that no one would know, uh,
  be around to
  tell where, where did, where did this gold end up?
  It ended up in the Philippines is there's 176 troves of these.
  It's still there.
  Still there.
  Oh, yeah.
[1:38:54] Jeremy Ris:
  So there is 1.5 trillion or $1.2 trillion worth of gold in the Philippines
  now.
[1:39:00] Unknown Guest:
  Oh, 1.2 trillion was just about just 12.
  There's 176 of them.
  And they're still there.
  Yes.
  They're still there.
  So who's guarding over them?
  They, they don't, they can't find them.
  That's what the problem is.
  They're, they're crazy people running around the Philippines for decades
  trying to find
  these places.
[1:39:18] SPEAKER_02:
  No way.
  But they don't, they don't know where they are.
  But you, but we have documentation that there are a lot of these.
[1:39:25] Unknown Guest:
  Oh yeah.
  That, that, that, uh, Marcos got two of them.
  Yeah.
  Uh, by, by capturing one of the guys who was, uh, uh, who,
  who found one of them and, uh, they drilled the eyes out of his son right
  in front of him with a hot poker.
  Jesus.
  Marcos did Colonel Vare, you know, did it.
  Who is, who's Marcos?
  Marcos was the president of the, of the Philippines.
  Whoa.
  That, uh, that was, uh, who drilled, who drilled the general Vare was his
  kind
  of chief torturer and, uh, he tortured this guy's son right in front of him
  to
  get the guy to tell him where two of these little troves were, you know,
  and,
  uh, they got two of them.
  Uh, Marcos got two of them.
  Each of a hundred.
  Yeah.
  Billion dollars.
  What?
[1:40:05] Jeremy Ris:
  But, but, so what does this have to do with the UFO?
[1:40:08] Unknown Guest:
  Well, the, the, no, the, it doesn't as such.
  What, what we know is that the, at the end of world war II, after they had
  done
  this, after they buried them all, and there were maps of, of them, that's
  what,
  what happened is that, uh, Lansdale, Ed Lansdale, who was in the OSS, when
  they disbanded the OSS after the Germans, uh, uh, surrendered in May of 45,
  uh, that Truman disbanded the OSS and reassigned them all around.
  And Ed Lansdale, who was an OSS guy gets made the G2, uh, in Manila, right.
  And he knows about the fact that this treasure has been buried around there.
  And so what he does is when, when, uh, general Yakushima turns himself in,
  you know, at the end of the war, after the dropping the bombs, you know, in,
  uh,
  in August the sixth and eighth of 45, you know, they all surrender, uh, so
  there's
  not going to be any kind of, uh, invasion to the, and what, what, uh, Japan
  was
  hoping that they could get a conditional surrender, uh, and that they would
  be
  able to keep custody of the Philippines so that they'd be able to then later
  go
  in and dig these things up and have, you know, re, uh, constitute the wealth
  of the Japanese empire, right.
  That was the plan, but the US bombs them instead, uh, and says, you know,
  it's an unconditional surrender.
  You don't get the Philippines.
  We.
  The Philippines, right.
  And so, and so what happens is, is, uh, at Lansdale at Lansdale, uh,
  knows that these are here.
  And so these, these treasure troves are there.
  So what he does is he, he kidnaps the driver for general Yakushima who would
  know where the, some of them were right.
  And so he has him tortured.
  This guy means Santa Maria, Santa Mario, uh, uh, Santa
  Mario.
  Yeah, it's his name.
  Uh, this corporal that actually conducted the torturing of, of this driver,
  uh, and
  they find out where 12 of the troves are.
  Uh, so they punched the first one, uh, and find the a hundred billion
  dollars.
  Uh, I've seen photographs of the, I mean, it looks, it's like a football
  stadium down underneath the ground.
  You know, they goes down like five, 600 feet, huge cave caverns down there
  in stacks of gold bullion, you know?
  You know, armpit high, as far as you can see, you know, and big
  barrels of jewels everywhere.
  And the bottom line is they, they punch 12 of these things.
  And so, uh, so Lansdale, uh, after punching the first one and verifying
  that, that is for real, he gets in a plane.
  He flies, uh, from Manila to Singapore to see MacArthur and he goes in to
  see
  MacArthur, uh, personally, he starts to tell him what they've got here,
  right?
  And MacArthur brings in.
  His G two who's Charles Willoughby, uh, in the, in, so, uh, MacArthur orders
  Willoughby to go with Ed Lansdale in MacArthur's private plane, and they
  fly him from Singapore, back to Manila, back into the, uh, the Philippines
  and back into the United States.
  Right.
  And they, they go to see Truman to tell Truman that they've got $1.2
  trillion,
  uh, in gold bullion and platinum in, in, uh, in gold.
  Uh, silver and jewels.
  Uh, and the, the chief of staff won't let them see him, uh, unless he, they
  tell him what they want to talk about.
  So they brief the chief of staff who is Clark Clifford.
  So Clifford comes into the meeting, uh, with Truman, uh, with, uh, Ed
  Lansdale and with Willoughby and start to brief Truman about what they've
  got.
  Truman says, hold a second.
  I've, I've got to bring, uh, uh, Stimson in.
  He brings in the secretary of war, uh, Stimson, brings him in.
  As soon as Stimson starts realizing what they've got, he sends for his three
  deputies and he, he brings in Robert Lovett, uh, and Robert Anderson, both
  not
  only deputy secretaries of war, but senior partners in Brown Brothers
  Harriman and,
  and John J. McCloy, and they bring them in, the three deputies.
  They find out what they've got here.
  And Truman decides that what he's going to do.
  He's not going to tell anybody.
  He's not going to tell the Congress.
  He's not going to tell anybody else about it.
  They're going to set up this secret, uh, uh, trust, uh, they call the
  Anderson trust.
  They set it up down in Houston, Texas, and they, they set up the, the
  Anderson
  trust and they have all this and they, they assign, we, we now know we've
  got
  the, he's still alive, the, the, the commander, the pilot that flew the,
  flew
  the gold out, he's alive, yes, he's alive.
[1:44:56] SPEAKER_02:
  Have you spoken to him?
[1:44:57] Unknown Guest:
  We, no, I'm going to, whoa, we're going to, we, we know right where he is
  now.
  And, and I'm going to.
  I'm going to talk to him, you know, to get this thing on the record.
  Whoa.
  But so the, so they fly the, using us military transport, they fly these,
  these, this gold all out of there, you know, these 12 troves of it, and they
  bring it to the international credit bank in Geneva, Switzerland, and then
  they deposit it there and then they issue gold certificates on it, which
  are like bearer bonds, you know, and, and they, they make, they distribute
  them to right wing anti-communist candidates.
  For mayors and stuff after World War II, you know, all throughout Europe.
  Whoa.
  And there's, so there's this whole covert program of.
  So this has nothing to do with the UFOs?
  No.
  Oh, okay.
  No, no, no, but what it is, is it's a, it's a, a mechanism for secretly
  funding covert operations.
  Yeah.
  That are going on after World War II, uh, when the CIA is set up and they're
  all funding this stuff and that's Dulles knows about this money that's
  there.
  Yeah.
  So that they're, they're using this for covert operations. Interesting.
  You know?
[1:46:03] Jeremy Ris:
  And yeah, that's wild.
[1:46:07] Unknown Guest:
  That's wild.
  It's, it's, it's totally, uh, separate from the, the UFO stuff.
[1:46:11] Jeremy Ris:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  I think Chris Ramsey, who just did a great interview with you told me, maybe
  he
  thought it had something to do with UFOs.
  So no, I'll use this as a, uh, opportunity to say, Chris, why'd you lead me
  astray?
  And, but go watch your interview with Chris.
  Cause I thought that was great.
  I don't know if you've seen it, but it was fantastic.
  It was really great.
  Yeah.
[1:46:31] Unknown Guest:
  I don't, I don't see, I don't.
  I don't see most of these things.
  I just, you know, when I, yeah, with somebody that I trust anyway, that I
  can just tell
  you.
  Yeah.
  And so it's done there.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
[1:46:42] Jeremy Ris:
  I know that you guys will tell other people.
  Check it out.
  Area 52.
  Um, yeah.
  In that interview, you actually talk about, uh, an interview with a live
  alien being,
  uh, at S4 in area 51.
  That's right.
  That's right.
  And, uh, yeah.
  Care to go into any detail around that?
[1:46:57] Unknown Guest:
  Well, yeah, uh, yeah, I got it at Jesuit headquarters.
  Uh, I mean.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Let me see.
  It must be about, uh, let's see when that would be.
  Uh, it was 94 that I'd already done the, uh, the John Mack stuff.
  Uh, so it was, it was like 2000, uh, 2001, 2002, something like that.
  That, uh, I, I get a call, uh, from a guy, uh, in Northern Minnesota and
  he's, uh, on
  his deathbed.
  Well, he's actually in hospice.
  Right.
  Uh, and he wants me to come and see him.
  There's something, and he says that he worked directly with Project Blue
  Book.
  Mm.
  And so I said, uh, oh, uh, uh, okay.
  So I fly there and fly into Minneapolis and rent a little car and drive up
  into this little
  teeny town up in Northern Minnesota.
  Uh, and there he is, he's at this little hospice place with, he's got one of
  these little rollers
  with all the little bottles on it and stuff in his nose.
  Mm-hmm .
  Mm-hmm .
  Now, uh, he was a, uh, a, a clerk typist.
  Mm-hmm .
  Uh, Army, U.S. Army, clerk typist assigned to this special unit of Project
  Blue Book
  that was focusing just on the 700 or so, uh, uh, cases of, of, uh, of
  instance, incidents,
  which they couldn't explain away.
  Mm.
  They were just too credible.
  The, the sources were too credible, they had too many people had seen it.
  What was his name?
  That, uh, his, his name was, uh, Oscar, uh, Wolf.
  Oscar Wolf.
[1:48:28] Jeremy Ris:
  Oscar, Oscar Wolf or Oscar Lane, Oscar Wolf.
[1:48:31] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Oscar Wolf.
  Uh-huh .
  That's who he was.
  Uh, and, uh, and, uh, he, he starts telling me about it all, uh, and goes
  into detail
  about it.
  Uh, now, it's one of these bizarre things, because I, my, my, my office
  people said,
  you gotta bring a camera, you gotta bring a camera to get this guy if he's
  gonna give
  you a death penalty.
  Did you record him?
  Yeah, yeah, I, I, I brought the little thing.
  I set it all up on the little table, and, and so I had the whole, the whole
  thing recorded.
  Mm-hmm .
  Uh, and it got corrupted somehow.
[1:49:06] Jeremy Ris:
  But I think Jeremy Corbell might have recorded an interview with this guy
  separately?
[1:49:11] Unknown Guest:
  Later.
  Yeah.
  He did, and he also, he also talked with Richard Dolan.
  Okay.
  Yeah.
  So we have him on record.
  That's right.
  Oscar Wolf.
  And, and, well, uh, they, but the thing is they didn't press into them, as
  far as I know,
  about this incident.
  Oh, really?
  Yeah.
  And they told me about the fact that he, because I kept.
[1:49:29] Jeremy Ris:
  They missed the, they buried the lead.
[1:49:31] Unknown Guest:
  Well, yeah, because I was interrogating the shit out of him, you know.
  Yeah.
  And I was just pressing down on him, because I figured he was going to be
  dead anyhow.
  Poor guy.
  He's on, he's on a deathbed.
  So, so, so yeah, don't, don't mess with me.
  So, if I was, but.
[1:49:41] SPEAKER_02:
  Did she want to do it?
  No, she didn't.
  No, it's, shape up.
[1:49:44] Unknown Guest:
  You know, I said.
[1:49:45] SPEAKER_02:
  He's, he's dying.
  You can't do that.
[1:49:47] Unknown Guest:
  I could have been worse.
  I could have said, you know, if you want any absolution, you know, but I
  didn't do that
  part.
  So, so, so.
  I mean, Jesuits are thugs.
  I didn't realize that.
  Yeah, that's, that's been too tough, you know, and so, so, so the, the
  bottom line, he tells
  me that, that, that the reason that he has developed this kind of special
  relationship
  with the commander of this unit that is assigned specifically to investigate
  the, the, the,
  the 700 other cases, right, is because he and the commander were both part
  of this really
  fundamentalist Christian sect called the Worldwide Church of God.
  I mean, apparently really hardcore fundamentalist crowd and, and, uh, and so
  that he, he stayed
  there for years and when they were working on it, people would come and go
  in the staff
  and do field investigations and all that, but he kept staying there and
  keeping records.
  And then his commander comes in and said that he is going to be going to
  area 51 and, uh,
  wanted, wanted Oscar to come with him.
  And so he did, he went with him, but it turns out it was not just area 51.
  It was S4.
  So they actually went all the way to S4, uh, and went down in the big
  elevators and went
  in and he said he saw like three or four.
[1:51:03] Jeremy Ris:
  By the way, S4 isn't supposed to officially exist.
  So it's important.
  The only versions where it exists, you have Bob Lazar, you have a guy named
  Dan Barish
  and you have this story.
  That's right.
  And I think we're going to get some more corroboration soon that S4 does in
  fact exist.
  And then, then all of a sudden you start asking questions about these
  specific stories and
  it starts to blow your mind.
  Okay.
  So you're going down.
[1:51:25] Unknown Guest:
  So, so he goes down and he says, and he sees like there's three or four, uh,
  UFOs that
  are just, they, they've got little like, uh, little garages, like these,
  these little chambers
  where they are.
  So it's the same story as Bob Lazar.
  And they're just, they're just hovering in there.
  They're just, he said they were just, they're just hovering all by
  themselves inside these
  little garages like that were underground.
  He said he saw them, uh, and then they went in and his, his commander was
  going to be,
  uh, interviewing a live ET guy, right?
  So he goes with him, uh, and they come into this other area where there were
  military
  guys there.
  He said, but there was this room, like a standalone room with these big two
  way mirrors that you
  can see through, uh, from the outside.
  And he said, he saw the ET guy, but he was like, you know, five and a half
  feet tall.
  No, it wasn't a little tiny short guy.
  It was a kind of a kind of life size guy.
  He said, big, big head, big eyes.
  And he was in this kind of jumpsuit that they'd provided for him.
  Uh, and he was, he was very cooperative that he wasn't being interrogated.
  Was he speaking English or telepathic?
  No, no, he was, it was all telepathic.
  It was all telepathic.
[1:52:37] Jeremy Ris:
  So they just, he just saw them sitting across from each other.
[1:52:40] Unknown Guest:
  He could see, he could see his commander walk in, but he wouldn't go.
  Cause he said, he said, I thought it was demonic.
  That's what he said.
  He said, I thought it was demonic and I didn't want to go near him.
  Uh, and so he stayed outside.
  And, but he could see.
  He could see his, his commander having this kind of telepathic communication
  going on
  with him.
[1:52:58] Jeremy Ris:
  Right.
  And his commander was a fundamentalist Christian.
[1:53:00] SPEAKER_02:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  And so, and so how, what was the communication like?
[1:53:05] Unknown Guest:
  That he didn't say, he just said that it was telepathic.
  He could tell that they were having this telepathic, well, he, he probably
  afterwards got it confirmed
  by his, his commander that it was all telepathic.
  They weren't talking.
  You could just see that they were having this kind of communication.
[1:53:20] SPEAKER_14:
  Did he seem honest to you?
  Oh yes.
[1:53:22] Unknown Guest:
  Oh yes.
  I think that happened.
  Yeah.
[1:53:25] SPEAKER_02:
  I do think that happened.
  I think that happened.
[1:53:27] Unknown Guest:
  You know?
[1:53:28] SPEAKER_02:
  And, uh.
[1:53:29] Jeremy Ris:
  So you think we have alien beings at S4?
[1:53:30] Unknown Guest:
  Well, no, no.
  All I, all I know is I think that there was one there.
  Okay.
  At that time.
  At that time.
  And that he saw him.
  Uh, and that he, he stayed outside and the military guys that were there
  showed him these,
  these cards.
  They had, he said they had these index cards that, uh, and it didn't say
  whether they were
  typed up or printed.
  But they had the questions and answers that were there, the things they'd
  ask him.
  Right?
  And so they had a little record of interviews that had been conducted with
  him.
  And then one of them, he said that, uh, they asked him, you know, so where
  are you guys
  from?
  What are you, what are you doing here?
  And he said that, you know, he was part of a group, uh, of people, beings
  from different
  star systems in our galaxy.
  He said.
  And that their job was to go.
  And that their job was to go around monitoring where life has started in
  different planets
  inside the galaxy, uh, in that, that was what they did, uh, and that's what
  they were doing
  here.
  And he said, uh, they asked him, well, who's, who tasked you to do that, you
  know, who's
  in charge of that?
  And he said, well, it's what you people would refer to as God, but it's very
  different than
  you think.
  And how is it different?
  He didn't say.
  Whoa.
  He didn't say.
  And he said, but I didn't believe him.
  He said, cause I thought he was demonic.
  And so I never told anybody.
  I never told anybody about this.
[1:55:00] Jeremy Ris:
  Have you ever heard the term Collins elite?
  Yes.
  Do you think that the, this kind of fundamentalist Christian commander was
  involved in the Collins
  elite or?
[1:55:09] Unknown Guest:
  No, it didn't, didn't seem to be.
  Okay.
  This was kind of an individual thing with him and this guy.
[1:55:14] Jeremy Ris:
  Cause they also thought that the, the alien stuff was kind of demonic.
[1:55:17] Unknown Guest:
  Oh yeah.
  No, no.
  There's a whole, a whole stream of that in the fundamentalist world, you
  know, I've got,
  you know, that, uh, Sarah's, uh, sister-in-law is a fundamentalist, you
  know, and she will,
  she thinks the whole thing is demonic.
  It's a meme.
[1:55:38] Jeremy Ris:
  Have you ever interviewed?
  I mean, I'm sure part of it is, and part of it might be angelic and you
  know, it's like
  probably.
[1:55:44] Unknown Guest:
  I think that it's because people don't understand that whole part.
  People don't understand angelic.
[1:55:49] Jeremy Ris:
  It's probably good and bad is probably way too simplistic of a frame for
  whatever they're
  operating on.
  And I'm sure there.
  Good ones that incidentally do violence to you because of their kind of, you
  know, field
  or whatever, once you, you know, it's like St.
  Prince, St. Francis of Assisi has a vision
  of this, you know, um, kind of, you know, winged angel being, it was a
  flaming torch
  in the original translation, but as a Sarah theme and it does violence to
  him, but it's
  like, it's, that becomes part of his conversion towards God and it ends up
  sort of killing
  him.
  But I think the sort of good, bad, you know, dichotomy is probably a earthly
  one.
[1:56:25] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  Well, there's, there's, I mean, an awful lot of, uh, anthropomorphic
  projection, you know,
  onto these folks because they, because there's so much like us, I mean, you
  know, that that's
  a real challenge.
  Have you ever met an alien?
  No.
  Would you want it?
  Sure.
  Really?
  Sure.
  Yeah.
  I'd like to sit down and chat with them and actually figure out, you know,
  how to, you
  know, kind of represent us, you know, in, in a full way about how good and
  bad stuff
  that we do, all of us, you know, but try to figure out what the criteria are
  for trying
  to establish a relationship of trust with them and how we could trust them.
  What can they do to kind of assuage the concerns that people have about them
  in their kind
  of secretive ways, you know?
[1:57:14] Jeremy Ris:
  Have you ever seen, so you've seen picture of a UFO.
  Yeah.
  It was in the blue book files and a skiff in DC and you even, um, traced.
  It wasn't a skiff though.
  Oh, it wasn't a skiff.
  Okay.
  It was just, it was just this room that they had downstairs in the Madison.
  And you traced the, uh, symbols that were along the edge of the craft.
  I did that.
  Um, have you ever seen anomalous material?
  No.
[1:57:39] Unknown Guest:
  I've seen photographs of the, of this thing that Hal had.
  I've seen photographs.
  What thing that Hal had?
  That piece of metal.
  That's got like 17 different layers of.
  Is that magnesium bismuth?
  Yes.
  Yeah.
[1:57:51] Jeremy Ris:
  Yeah.
  I've just seen the layers thinner than a micron or whatever.
  Yeah.
  That's right.
  That's the one I've seen photographs.
  What do you think of, you know, how put offs this sort of Godfather
  architect of the space?
  He's just, uh, you know, seems to have his hand in everything.
  Um, w what, what do you think of Hal and his role and kind of ufology?
[1:58:13] Unknown Guest:
  I think, I think Hal is, uh, is more knowledgeable.
  Yeah.
  Uh, in depth about this whole thing than most any of the people that you
  would meet, you know, can, and know, uh, you know, in the, that, uh.
  Do you think he says everything he knows?
  No.
[1:58:33] SPEAKER_02:
  Oh, no, no.
  He doesn't even pretend to.
  Uh-huh.
  No, he doesn't even pretend to say everything he knows.
  Do you think he's worked on a craft or seen a craft?
  Oh, I'm sure he has.
  You're sure he has?
[1:58:41] Unknown Guest:
  Oh, no, I'm, I'm completely sure he has.
  Really?
  Yeah.
  Um.
  Does he know how to fly?
  No, he has a better idea of how they fly than most anybody.
  You know, there may be some technicians that, that know more about some
  details.
[1:58:55] Jeremy Ris:
  Do you think he understands a lot about sort of, um, I don't know, uh, the
  mental networks and that sort of thing?
  Yeah.
  Do you think he's sort of clued into that?
[1:59:06] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  Oh, yeah.
  Oh, I mean, the, the, that, that's his major focus.
  From Stargate?
[1:59:11] Jeremy Ris:
  Is, is, yeah.
  What's the connection between remote viewing and, you know, so you had these
  guys.
  Yeah.
  You had these guys in the remote viewing program like Stargate.
  Mm-hmm.
  You know, which was formed by the CIA and later run out of the DIA in 1972.
  He, um, you know, the, the, some of these guys like Ingo Swann would like
  remote view alien bases on the moon and things like that.
  But do you think.
[1:59:34] Unknown Guest:
  I talked, I talked to Ingo about it.
[1:59:35] Jeremy Ris:
  Did you?
  Yeah.
  I spent like a whole day with Ingo.
[1:59:38] Unknown Guest:
  No way.
  In an apartment in New York.
  Yeah.
  What, what did Ingo say about the alien bases?
  It was interesting that, that, that my, my access to him came through the
  Church of Scientology thing.
  Mm-hmm.
  You know, that that's a big deal.
  Yeah.
  Uh, that Church of Scientology, that Hal put off at Church of Scientology
  and, and, uh,
  uh, Targ, Russell Targ was at Church of Scientology.
  All kinds of the guys were at Church of Scientology.
[2:00:01] Jeremy Ris:
  And to catch people up, you kind of won L. Ron Hubbard's favor by, uh, you
  know, there
  was a case against them around, uh, you know, special exemption, you know,
  as a, as a religious
  organization.
  Yeah.
  Mm-hmm.
  And, uh, there were, you know, I think they were, they were being bugged for
  a little
  bit and they were sort of trying to bug the federal government.
  They were trying to track the federal government too.
[2:00:20] Unknown Guest:
  Well, they, they had, they had the, they had the door of their headquarters
  chainsawed off.
[2:00:24] Jeremy Ris:
  Right.
  By the, by the IRS.
  And then you.
  And FBI.
  You were sort of helping them out and then you made it, you were about to
  like sign on
  formally as their counsel and then you asked them for their.
[2:00:35] Unknown Guest:
  No, no.
  That's, it wouldn't be the way to look.
  I was asked to be their counsel.
  You were asked to be their counsel.
  And I said, look, as a condition precedent to even begin to talk with Ron
  Hubbard, because
  he wanted to meet with me, uh, and try to persuade me to become the lawyer
  for him and
  his wife specifically, not necessarily for the church, but for him and his
  wife, uh,
  and that, uh, that the head guardian from the, from North America came to my
  office
  at the Jesuit headquarters and said that, uh, that, uh, Mr. Hubbard would
  like to talk
  with you about becoming the lawyer for him and his wife, Susan.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  And I said, well, I said, look, uh, as a condition precedent to even being
  willing
  to meet with him, to talk with him, I'd have to be given permission to have
  access to whatever
  records or information there is anywhere in the world about the church.
  Uh, and I said, that's, I assume that's a total non-starter, right?
  And they give you their records.
  Within a week they came back and said, it's a deal.
  No way.
  What do you want to see?
  And so I.
  So you could query anybody's e-meter results?
  Yeah.
  Anything.
  I could get anything I wanted.
  And so, uh, they flew me down to, uh.
  They flew me down to, uh, to, uh, Florida, uh, and the big blue cube they've
  got down
  there, this big, huge blue building.
  Uh, and, uh, so I go in and there's the head of the guardian's office, U.S.
  guardian's
  office and the international head of the guardians, you know, out of the UK.
  Uh, and they say, uh, so what do you want to see?
  And I said, uh, well, first what I want to see is the file you've got on me,
  uh, in the
  American guy said, no, why?
  No, we've got the, I don't.
  No.
  And I said, excuse me.
  I said, what do you think?
  I fell off some melon wagon somewhere.
  I said, you know, you're going to have me be L. Ron Hubbard's attorney and
  you don't
  have any file on me at all.
  And the international guy says, go get him the file.
  You know?
  So they bring me the file.
  I'm going through it.
[2:02:25] Jeremy Ris:
  How deep was it?
  How much stuff did they have?
[2:02:27] Unknown Guest:
  Well, they had, they had, you know, pictures of me, what was I, you know, I
  was, I was
  a Jesuit candidate.
  I was at the headquarters.
  You know, they would follow me around.
  They showed me in different restaurants, you know, and, and meeting with
  people, you know,
  Mark Lane and some of the other guys, you know.
[2:02:39] SPEAKER_14:
  They saw Mark Lane.
  He was like a Kennedy assassination investigator.
[2:02:42] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
[2:02:45] SPEAKER_14:
  Rush to judgment.
[2:02:46] Unknown Guest:
  He was the author of that.
  You know?
  So, you know, they had all these kinds of things.
  And so I said, okay, good.
  I just wanted to make sure that it was, that it was accurate.
  You know?
  And then, so the international guy says to me, he says, okay, so what else
  do you want
  to see?
  I said, I want to see the three most sensitive files in the entire world,
  according to you
  as the head of the guardian's office, you know, and he just went, oh, fuck,
  he said,
  I said, so, so either you get them or not.
  You know?
  And so he gets up and is gone and revels around, comes back and he ends up
  laying one of the
  files in front of me.
  And I started looking at it and it was all reports by Ingo Swann, Ingo Swann
  was filing
  reports with the head guardian office in the UK about the entire internal
  operations of
  the Office of Naval Intelligence, remote viewing program that they were
  doing.
  He was just giving them all the information.
[2:03:36] SPEAKER_02:
  So he was a spy or something?
  Yeah.
[2:03:39] Unknown Guest:
  Well, he was a spy for the Church of Scientology.
[2:03:42] SPEAKER_02:
  For the Church of Scientology?
[2:03:43] Unknown Guest:
  Over and against the Office of Naval Intelligence.
  Why would he do that?
  Because he was a high level clearer.
  That was his loyalty group.
  His fundamental loyalty.
[2:03:51] Jeremy Ris:
  So he was loyal to them prior to-
[2:03:54] Unknown Guest:
  That's right.
[2:03:55] SPEAKER_02:
  That's right.
  Over and above, over and above the country.
[2:03:57] Jeremy Ris:
  Because I always thought Putoff was like looking into that stuff because he
  was like
  an NSA guy before he was a Scientology guy.
  So I thought Putoff was just like tasked to like looking into this, you
  know, very, you
  know, para-governmental intelligence organization that is Scientology that's
  seen as a threat.
  And so, you know, get Putoff in there.
[2:04:17] Unknown Guest:
  No.
  This was a, I mean, the Church of Scientology, you're not aware of it, that
  their highest
  principle in the Church of Scientology is all to do with UFOs.
  Really?
  Yeah.
  They believe that there's a major confrontation going on between the
  human-like people from
  the Pleiades over and against the reptilians from Zeta Reticuli, and that
  there's a major
  confrontation going on over which of them is going to actually assert major
  relations
  with our planet.
[2:04:50] Jeremy Ris:
  Do you agree with that worldview?
  No.
  I don't.
  But Swan was like fully in with the Scientologists and was giving them
  information on the Office
  of Naval Intelligence?
  All of it.
  And so you're also saying that there's a remote viewing program that was
  deeper than
  Stargate?
  Because that wasn't Office of Naval Intelligence.
  No.
  That's right.
  The CIA.
[2:05:08] Unknown Guest:
  No.
  This was a program, and Pat Price, I'll give you some idea how deep this
  goes, Pat Price,
  they had the file, Ingo Swann had the file that Pat Price had gotten so good
  at remote
  viewing that they assigned him a task of, they gave him the exact longitude
  and latitude
  down to the minute and second of a location, and he was assigned an artist
  so that he didn't
  have to do these hand scratches trying to show it.
  But he was saying, so what's there?
  So there's this major battle.
  There's this building here, and there's a big fence up with razor wire on
  the top
  of it and everything, and his facilitator was Russell Targ.
  And so Russell was saying, okay, now can you get inside the fence?
  Can you see anything inside the fence?
  And he goes, yeah, okay, all right, yeah, I can see inside the fence.
  There's just this no man's land there.
  Can you get to the front door of this place?
  And he said, all right.
  He said, okay, all right, I got it.
  Yeah, okay, I'm in front of the front door.
  And he said, can you go inside the building?
  And he said, let me see here, okay, yeah, yeah, I can see inside the
  building here.
  And he said, so what do you see?
  He said, there's this big, long hallway, and there's some doors on both
  sides.
  And Russell said, now go down to the third door on the left.
  And he said, okay.
  And he said, can you go into the room?
  Yeah, I can go into the room.
  So what do you see?
  Well, there's a big desk there and chairs and stuff.
  There's a big file cabinet over in the right corner over here.
  He said, go over to the file cabinet.
  He goes over to the file cabinet, there's a second drawer, first file, read
  it to him.
  And he did.
  What was it?
  Well, that's not the point.
  The point is that he did it, and he can do it.
  It turns out it's an American facility, it's a top CIA security facility,
  and he penetrated it.
[2:07:01] Jeremy Ris:
  That's insane then.
  So anybody with remote viewing skills can get the nuclear codes?
[2:07:04] Unknown Guest:
  Not anybody, but Pat Price could.
  The best.
  So that's Pat Price, right?
  And in the same file, it points out that Pat Price had actually evolved to
  the point where
  they could take a full photograph of a boomer class Russian submarine,
  nuclear submarine,
  and show it to him and say, where is it right now?
  And he would give them right down to the exact longitude and latitude, down
  to the minute
  and second of exactly where that is.
  And he visualized the whole thing and told them exactly where it was.
  But there was a huge UFO.
  Right over the top of the water where that thing was.
  And it was tracking it and monitoring it.
  And he had it in the file.
  I'm going, whoa.
  I said, this is pretty wild.
  And then I said, OK, so what else have you got?
  You know, he says, well, here.
  And I said, show me the second file.
  And he showed me the second file.
  And it was, again, from Ingo Swann.
  It was a deep inside report.
  From Ingo Swann.
  They had taken Pat Price in the program up to southern Canada, south central
  Canada,
  just north of the state of Michigan.
  And they brought him to this little facility.
  It was like this little domed little building.
  And it had these big, huge dishes on top, these communication dishes on top.
  And they brought him in.
  And they sat him down.
  And they put this helmet on him.
  And they had him think a particular message.
  And they turned all the antenna down to the northern peninsula of Michigan,
  that little
  section that's in there, and had him be telepathically projecting, when it
  comes time for you to file
  your national US income tax forms next year, file them in this little post
  office box down
  this little town down in West Virginia.
  And 85% of the people did it.
[2:09:13] SPEAKER_02:
  And it's really awesome to see that applied to him.
  And I've known him for a whole lot of my life, but he really is an amazing
  man.
  So I know him.
[2:09:22] Jeremy Ris:
  He has one of my biggest favorites.
  He's a great guy already.
  Oh, he's a great guy.
  He's a great guy.
  You can go to his website.
[2:09:27] Unknown Guest:
  He'll be like, I can trust you.
  I'm like, I'm just going to trust you.
[2:09:29] Jeremy Ris:
  And I'm going to show you what it's like to be a president of a big country.
  But he has a sense of loyalty.
  I'm and have this feeling of love for him.
  And I just love him.
  And I'm just kind of like, I love him, and I'm just really, really, really,
  very, really
  proud of him.
  And I'm really proud of him.
[2:09:38] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  from then yeah seeing that ingo swan yeah i didn't say no to them then but
  as soon as i saw the file
  on the fair game i knew i wasn't going to do it but i had the opportunity to
  go see ingo so i
  contacted ingo and said you know i'm being asked to be the lawyer for for uh
  hubbard and you know
  i want to chat with you so i went to see him at his apartment in new york
  and we go all the way
  upstairs up onto the roof of his apartment he's got there and then i started
  talking to him uh
  and and i i didn't want to freak him out over the fact that he was clearly
  violating his security clearance you know by providing these reports to the
  church of scientology so he was using his remote viewing from stargate in
  the reports that he was giving
  to the church of scientology yeah he was finally not only about his work but
  pat price's work
  you know the other stuff all the things that he was doing he was reporting
  to like back he was a back channel spy to the church of scientology on
  behalf of them vis-a-vis the
  it was federal government it was clearly his his his major loyalty wow
  allegiance was to them did you ask him about because he wrote a book called
  penetration about seeing bases alien bases i hadn't seen i hadn't seen that
  you hadn't seen that did you get into the alien
  thing at all with him or oh yeah because because because he he in one of his
  reports
  had uh had uh a report in there about uh it was it was uh uh uh hell put off
  no it wasn't hell it
  was uh tard russell targ had been facilitating a remote viewing by pat price
  uh when they
  when they stepped it up from him being able to remote view things in real
  time to be able to be
  shown a photograph
  of a russian boomer submarine and then he could locate it
  he could figure out exactly where it was down to the minute and second of
  longitude and latitude
  i mean which was the big deal you know i mean that's the big deal yeah and
  uh and uh and when
  they found it uh when they found it and verified that it was there through
  the remote viewing
  others to find there was a ufo hovering right over the top of where the
  russian boomer submarine
  was going into the water and it was monitoring it uh and uh and i just when
  i saw i just went
  whoa did you see a photo no okay no they just told me about it yeah it was a
  written report
  that they that it was there and it was just it was following right along
  where the russian boomer
  submarine was going you know and that was the only piece that was in there
  except when i when i
  started interrogating people you know because i i wanted to get as much
  advantage as i could of the
  that i had here to get information so i got to meet the guy who was legal
  counsel for the uh
  church to ask him to explain to me you know what the net net of all this was
  you know what were
  they up to here and what it is is that they they considered themselves
  entitled to being considered
  a sovereign entity because the catholic church was so the catholic church
  has this kind of status of
  being a sovereign entity in a nation basically because they have vatican
  state right so they
  they insisted that as a matter of first amendment uh equal protection that
  they were entitled to
  take unto themselves the same status and so that's what caused them to be
  engaged in this fair game
  program they believed that they had a right to engage in like wet operations
  you know like the
  united states does and russia does and all of that which they asserted you
  know the vatican does they said do you think do you think that the vatican
  and that specifically maybe the knights of malta had kind of reverse
  engineering or transport or oversight i think that an element of the knights
  of malta have something to do with everything and why do you think that
  because of the people that
  there were in this uh this monte carlo group there's a thing called the
  monte carlo group
  that is at the top top of the entire nice of malta structure uh-huh uh and
  uh and
  i discovered that there were non-catholics in it which didn't make any sense
  to me it
  all like knights of malta is a catholic men's club like thing yeah but
  there's a there's this
  uh high executive council that turned out that henry kissinger was on it uh
  and uh and uh and
  george bush senior was that who's episcopal that's amazing well if i were
  but if i were to play devil's advocate i could have said council foreign
  relations bilderberg you know like i could name five other organizations
  that those two guys were a part of yeah um any other reasons to believe they
  had something to do with the ufo no just no just not specifically
  what i'm saying is that anybody who is at that level dealing with
  international things would
  have to be involved in this there's no way that you're not going to be
  involved in this because
  i mean you could be involved in all the other stuff and it wouldn't make any
  difference ultimately
  you know i mean this whole thing could to use the phrase trump you know
  everything what is the is there kind of a mandate or or you know
  constitution for the knights of malta i mean the the only references i
  really have are you know humphrey bogart the maltese falcon they were
  supposed to be the guardians of this maltese falcon and i believe they're
  also the heirs to the hospitaliers you know there was the kind of templars
  back in the day yeah sort of you know um pre-13th century when they were
  they were disbanded i guess 14th century and then they were kind of the
  guardians of these pilgrims that would go to the temple mount in you know
  jerusalem and then the medic side of that was the hospitaliers and so that
  sort of there's some lineage between that and you know knights of malta but
  otherwise i don't really understand you know what they do i know they have
  sovereign status and they can kind of they do yeah
  they're military they're a military order uh and they they're a sovereign
  they're a sovereign
  military order uh and it's it's it's very clear that you know the guys like
  reinhard galen was in
  the knights knights of malta
  the former nazi yeah reinhard galen is the guy that was the head of the
  anti-soviet and anti-eastern
  black intelligence for the third reich and also became the director of
  intelligence for west
  germany at the end of world war ii you know at the behest of our oss we got
  him put in there you know
  and shackley worked directly with him you know yeah and and uh and uh also
  um out of scorzani
  another former nazi yeah out of scorzani who ran the
  line uh-huh you know of smuggling them all out of there and they were
  knights of malta passports that were used did you i mean you're jesuit did
  you ever use your jesuit connections to figure out more about the magenta
  crash which was supposedly recovered you know according to david grush it
  was recovered in lombardi in 1933 and uh i believe the cardinal of milan was
  also of knight of malta at the time and the ufo supposedly made itself to
  the vatican where it held for a while and then i think pope pius the sixth
  maybe uh then you know transferred it over to the us the pope posse 11th
  okay transferred it over to the u.s um so do you know anything about that no
  no i didn't actually it's interesting do you believe that's a real case or
  it's interesting
  i didn't know about it okay i didn't know about it until comparatively
  recently okay uh so that
  I had been pretty well locked down on...
[2:17:43] Jeremy Ris:
  You got to hit up your Vatican contacts.
[2:17:44] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah, right.
  Yeah, right.
  Those that are still alive anyway.
  You know, I mean, they're all dead.
  I couldn't believe it.
  I mean, virtually everybody that was there in the staff
  when I was there have all passed away.
  It's totally bizarre.
  But the bottom line is I didn't know about that one at all.
  And no one has ever said anything to me about it.
  You know, and when I talked to Johann Itz,
  who was the head of the Vatican archives,
  you know, he's just always just smiled.
  I mean...
[2:18:13] Jeremy Ris:
  Has he given you a smile of quiet knowing?
[2:18:17] Unknown Guest:
  Oh, yeah.
  Oh, yeah.
  No, he knows because I sent the letters to them
  from Jesuit headquarters to ask for access
  for President Carter.
[2:18:24] Jeremy Ris:
  So he doesn't give you a befuddled laughing smile?
[2:18:28] Unknown Guest:
  No, no, no.
  It'd be perfectly easy for them to say,
  look, there's nothing to this.
  You're crazy.
  Okay.
  No, but no, he knows that I know.
  Interesting.
  That his stuff is there.
  Interesting.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
[2:18:37] Jeremy Ris:
  Isn't going to let me have it.
  So you, you were the lawyer for John Mack.
  Yeah.
  Who's the head of the Harvard psychiatry department
  and childhood friend of Bud Hopkins.
  Towards the end of his career,
  he started to take very seriously these experiencers.
  People would experience abductions or alien contact.
  And often it would come out in hypnotic regression
  or through holotropic breath work,
  which was one of his favorite kind of modalities.
  That was.
  And you have his final manuscript.
  Mm-hmm .
  I do.
  And he writes about, I heard at the end of his life, he started to get into
  reptilians
  and was like interested in reptilians specifically.
  I don't know.
  Is there anything interesting in that final manuscript that, um, sort of
  shows his overall
  worldview at the end of this, you know, decade plus long inquiry into the
  UFO alien question?
[2:19:30] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  He, he, he really views the entire UFO ET issue.
  Mm.
  As a, as a, as a window opening onto the functioning of worldviews, you
  know, in, in, in our human
  family to really explain an awful, I had something to do with that because
  that's what I was
  talking to him about.
  He and I, just before he got killed, we were planning on trying to set up a
  thing called.
[2:19:55] Jeremy Ris:
  When you say he got killed, was that, do you think it was intentionally or
  accidental?
[2:19:59] Unknown Guest:
  No, it was accidental. Okay.
  Car hit him.
  Yeah, yeah, no.
  In Europe.
  Yeah.
  It just happened.
  So sad.
  Dug it out and knew who the guy was.
  The guy's still in prison that, that ran him down.
  He was just drunk and, uh, you know, yeah.
  And, uh, so, so that the, uh, that John and I were talking about the fact
  that, that this
  was a, uh, actually the name of his manuscript is when worldviews collide
  and, you know,
  all the Velikovsky, uh, uh, that, you know, from when worlds collide.
  Yeah.
  So that's what he did.
[2:20:36] SPEAKER_02:
  To play on that.
  It's when worldviews collide.
  Yeah.
  Uh, in the.
  What was the Velikovsky?
  What was the, when worlds collide?
  What was that about?
[2:20:43] Unknown Guest:
  It's, it's, it's, when worlds collide is an old, uh, classic, uh, piece that
  Velikovsky
  wrote.
  It's, uh, the theory that the asteroid belt, uh, is a, another planet that
  was here in
  our, in our solar system, uh, in the, it, uh, collided with the moon or
  something.
  I, I just remember it.
  And, and it believes.
[2:21:05] Jeremy Ris:
  That's right.
  It's like the Kyber belt or something.
[2:21:07] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  The whole, the whole asteroid belt is really that planet all blown up, uh,
  into, into shrapnel
  basically all through the asteroid belt.
[2:21:17] Jeremy Ris:
  And so Mack was saying when worldviews collide, like the kind of Western
  materialist reductionist
  worldview and the animistic worldview or something, one that encapsulated
  life beyond humans.
[2:21:29] SPEAKER_01:
  If you want to shatter the Western mental structures, the, the Western mind,
  so to speak,
  which is now permeating the whole earth and it's materialist, dualistic
  philosophy, the
  way you do it is you take something that's supposed to be in the spirit
  world, because
  even in the West, we can make allowance for the spirit world and we can
  study it through
  mythology, through religion, through imagination, through poetry.
  But the one unforgivable sin to the Western mind is when something that
  should be in the
  spirit world transgresses.
  And shows up in the physical world, that traffic is the cardinal sin for the
  Western
  mind.
  So it has great power to shatter the belief structure of the Western mind
  when that occurs.
  And that's precisely what's occurring in this subduction phenomenon.
[2:22:20] Unknown Guest:
  And so he started really starting to perceive things cause I, I was some
  assistance in that
  cause I, I had, you know, done the master's degree work and then started the
  PhD work
  at Harvard, uh, on that very issue.
  Yeah.
  Uh, trying to under, trying to understand things.
  When you get a really complex issue, what you want to do is figure out what
  the kind
  of operational pieces of it are so you can get them spread out in front of
  just like
  a plane wreck.
  You know, you want to kind of reassemble the pieces that you can recover and
  take a look
  at it.
  And what this does is it tends to shake down into this octave of human
  worldviews.
  You know, that the, that only one aspect of which is their political
  manifestation.
  Mm-hmm.
  You know, that, that, uh, runs from, from right to left, you know, from the
  authoritarian
  to the reactionary, to the conservative, to the moderate, to the liberal, to
  the progressive,
  to the utopianist, you know, that there's, there's a, there are integrated
  worldviews
  that are internally self-referentially consistent, you know, and that
  they're all predicated
  upon the answers that you provide to these four pillar questions about the
  origins of
  the universe.
  Mm-hmm.
  What is the product, the teleological outcome of the universe is projected,
  you know, what
  the ontological relationship between consciousness and the material
  manifestation, uh, of reality
  is, the big one, you know, and the epistemological question is, you know,
  that what means do
  we have at our disposal as human beings by means of which you can possibly
  answer questions
  like that?
  You know, are we limited to our five senses or do we have other faculties?
  Do we have other kind of charisms that we have access to?
  Mm-hmm.
  Have been hidden or suppressed?
  Mm-hmm.
  You know?
  Those are, those are the fundamental questions.
  Mm-hmm.
  Uh, those are the sort of cosmic questions.
  Mm-hmm.
  And since we don't have the definitive answer to any of those yet, uh, the
  way, as
  long, as long as you have a internally and self-referentially consistent
  answer to all
  four of those questions.
  Mm-hmm.
  You have a worldview.
  Mm-hmm.
  It's a systematic worldview and if you can discern what the common principle
  is that
  makes all of them.
  Mm-hmm.
  Uh, similar to each other, the answers are consistent with each other, you
  apply that
  principle to any question that you confront.
  Mm-hmm.
  Uh, in making your judgments.
  Uh, and then you have a philosophy.
  That's, that's what a philosophy is, is a consistent application of a single
  principle
  that is generic to all four of these fundamental questions, if you can do
  that.
  Uh, and that, that's what a philosophy is and then you have a sub-component
  of that,
  your political philosophy.
  Mm-hmm.
  And then you have a mode of spiritual expression.
  Mm-hmm.
  Which is generic to that.
  That's where you get these major world religions that are generic to a
  particular worldview.
  Mm-hmm.
  You know?
  And so I would, I was starting to explain all that to him that, that I
  discovered, you
  know, when I actually went back to talk to John Rawls, who's the head of the
  Department
  of Philosophy at Harvard.
  Mm-hmm.
  You know, when I was running into these conflicts that I was having with the
  different
  lawyers in the firms where I was, you know, they all seemed to be
  functioning on some
  different levels.
  Mm-hmm.
  So what did, what did Mac think, you know, when, what would happen when
  worldviews collided, and when—
  He, he, he believes and that it's absolutely clear that there's the initial
  response that
  we have as human beings, as homo sapien,
  to an encounter with an extraterrestrial being
  is that it kind of shatters the kind of walls
  of the room, the mansion of our worldview, you know?
  That all of a sudden, things are so completely different
  than anything you'd ever assumed before
  that your world can fall apart, as it were.
  And so people, and people have this kind of cellular
  response when you find yourself actually confronted
  with an extraterrestrial being,
  that your whole cellular system reacts, you know,
  in a kind of a fight or flight way
  that your subconscious doesn't have any control over.
  It's just, you just freak out, you know?
  And so we started deciding that what we wanted to do
  is help train people that had consistent,
  repeated encounters, you know,
  because we found that to be a fairly common theme,
  that if you've been abducted once,
  you've been usually abducted more than once, right?
  And so that if it's going to happen again,
  to try to train a person through holotropic breathing
  to kind of just calm themselves down and to get centered,
  to try to get mastery over that kind of cellular response
  that your body has, because all of us that are alive right now,
  are the end of the chain of survivors.
  I mean, that's what's distinguished us, you know,
  that our lineage have all survived and gotten us through
  to where we are now.
[2:27:25] Jeremy Ris:
  That's fascinating, though.
  He's talking about almost like a manual
  for being physiologically ready for contact.
[2:27:30] Unknown Guest:
  That's right, absolutely right.
  To try to overcome the cellular imprint that we have in us
  to react like that.
  The allergic reaction.
[2:27:37] Jeremy Ris:
  Yeah.
  And it is like if you're, you know,
  like the three body problem, if you're in the dark forest
  and you are afraid of making contact,
  it's actually adaptive to sort of hide yourself.
  You would want to know that the other side
  is sort of receptive and stable and going to be okay.
  Yes, yes.
  You know, when you appear.
  Oh, that's right.
  Because if you, you know, cause this.
[2:27:57] Unknown Guest:
  Oh, they get in trouble.
  I mean, you know, Karen, one of the,
  they used to throw things at them.
  I mean, she'd throw lamps at them.
  She was one of Mac's patients.
[2:28:05] SPEAKER_02:
  She was one of the ladies.
  That's a little crazy, yeah.
[2:28:07] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah, and she was one of the first people
  who really got the holotropic breathing training.
[2:28:12] Jeremy Ris:
  Are you going to release this book
  or what are you planning on doing with this?
[2:28:16] Unknown Guest:
  I haven't ever, he just gave it to me
  because he was getting set to go to England
  to do this lecture on T.E.
  Lawrence
  and wanted me to go through it
  because it covers a lot of the encounter we had
  with the faculty committee.
  Yeah.
  It's kind of his account of what happened.
[2:28:35] Jeremy Ris:
  He was such an interesting guy.
  Well, he won a Pulitzer Prize for his book
  called The Prince of Disorder, which is about.
  The Prince of Our Disorder.
  The Prince of Our Disorder, about T.E.
  Lawrence.
  He was Lawrence of Arabia.
  Yeah, it was a psychobiography of Lawrence.
  Who I believe was, he was gay
  and he had been sort of sexually assaulted multiple times
  and he had this sort of crazy,
  and then he led this uprising, you know, and.
[2:28:59] Unknown Guest:
  He's a pretty fascinating character.
[2:29:01] Jeremy Ris:
  Fascinating character.
  And Mac himself was such a fascinating character.
  I feel like his search for the UFO and alien question
  was kind of motivated by some autobiographical stuff
  with his mother, who I think,
  did she die during childbirth or when he was very young?
[2:29:18] Unknown Guest:
  No, no, no, no.
  In fact, his mother played this really kind of major role.
  Okay.
  Because when he first got dragged up,
  or when he first started encountering
  these high-level military officials
  that were ordered to get a psychiatric exam
  to try to deter them from really pressing any further on this,
  it was the first thing that would happen
  that they'd be ordered to get a psychiatric exam.
[2:29:41] Jeremy Ris:
  Because they'd seen an alien or something?
[2:29:42] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah, because they wanted to file a report.
  Uh-huh, uh-huh.
  They wanted to file a report about a UFO encounter.
  And they were always told that you don't wanna do this, this is not good for
  your career.
[2:29:53] Jeremy Ris:
  Did John Mac, was he kind of abreast
  of any of the UFO stuff from his Navy experience
  or no, it came later?
[2:30:00] Unknown Guest:
  Nothing, no.
  He was a complete agnostic to start with.
  And then he got sent these, like Arne Arnolson,
  who was the actual commander,
  Yeah. who was the actual commander,
  of the Montana base.
  You know, the Minuteman base.
  Malmstrom.
  Malmstrom, Malmstrom.
  That he was the actual commander
  that filed the report with NORAD about it all.
  And then they said, are you trying to file a UFO report?
  Is that what you're doing?
  And he said, yes.
  He said it was the most important moment of his life.
  He just said, yes, I am.
  He says, I am not letting this one go.
  You know, because they shut off all of us.
  They shut off 10.
  Silas.
  10 independently wired nukes.
  Yeah.
  Minutemen.
  Yeah.
  Yeah.
  And so he was adamant that he was gonna get that filed.
  And so, you know, he and a number of other
  high-ranking military people had been sent to John Mack
  at Harvard as the head of the Department
  of Clinical Psychiatry to do the psychiatric workup
  on these guys.
  And after a half a dozen of these folks,
  he started saying, wait a second,
  this doesn't make any sense at all.
  He said, you know, these are high-ranking military people.
  There's lawyers and doctors.
  There's all kinds of people that are coming
  to report these things.
  It doesn't make any sense.
  And so he started this actually kind of
  like a little investigation.
  And he would train them to do the holotropic breathing
  and get them calmed down and centered, right?
  And then he was asking them questions.
  Okay, now you're inside the craft.
  Look around and tell me what you're seeing.
  And he was getting them to give little reports
  on these totally esoteric things, you know,
  that nobody would really make up, you know?
  And then he would see if other people, you know,
  other people saw similar stuff, you know?
  And he was verifying.
  So he sort of got to the point where he said,
  wait a second, there's something really happening here
  with these people.
  And so he called his mother, so she didn't die in childbirth.
  So he called her and she said, oh, you ought to check
  with Bud, the Hopkins kid, you know,
  that he's into this stuff, you know,
  even though he's a sculptor,
  and an artist, and all that kind of stuff.
  But, you know, that our families are close,
  and he knows a lot about this.
  And so that's how it happened,
  is that he ended up talking to Bud Hopkins,
  and Hopkins said, oh, look, let me show you.
  You know, and he started giving him a lot more people.
  And so by the time he contacted me, you know,
  he'd interviewed like 100 people.
  Wow.
  You know, who'd had these experiences.
  And so he ended up calling me, and when he got confronted
  by this faculty committee, and they called me
  and asked me if I would legally represent him.
  And so I went there and confronted the faculty committee,
  you know, but very fortunately, went with John
  to meet with Lawrence Rockefeller,
  and Lawrence Rockefeller told us all about, you know,
  his best friend seeing a UFO.
  That's why he was convinced it was true.
[2:33:04] Jeremy Ris:
  Yeah, Lawrence Rockefeller was a patron
  for a lot of early UFO research.
  He funded John Mack.
  Yep.
  He funded Stephen Greer.
  Yep.
  I think Whitley Stryber has told me a story
  about meeting with Lawrence Rockefeller in Wyoming
  in the Tetons at his ranch or whatever.
  Why do you think Lawrence Rockefeller was so interested
  in the subject?
  So you mentioned that his friend had an experience.
  That's interesting.
  Whitley.
  It was the Prince of Lichtenstein.
  Hans Adams.
  Whoever it was, that's all I want.
  He's apparently extremely interested in UFOs.
  It was his best friend.
  I think he thinks that Jesus is gonna come down on a saucer.
  It's like some eschatological worldview.
  I don't know.
  And he gathered, the guy named John Brandenburg,
  who I interviewed said that Prince Hans Adams
  had gathered all of the Roswell witnesses,
  I think in the 70s or something or the 80s.
  I don't know, and he wanted to speak to all of them
  and kind of understand what had happened.
  Oh yeah.
  So he was very interested in this.
[2:34:08] Unknown Guest:
  Oh, yeah. So he was very interested in this.
  and Lawrence told us that, you know,
  because he said that's why he was so convinced
  that it was true, that his friend,
  who was the Prince of Liechtenstein, had seen one,
  and that had actually walked right up onto one.
  That was up in the mountains,
  very similar to an experience of one of the guys
  that I knew, you know, the son of Bill Todman.
  You know, Mark Goodson and Bill Todman,
  Mark Goodson and Bill Todman were the guys
  that used to produce I Love Lucy
  and the $64,000 question and that tune,
  all those kind of quizzy shows,
  kind of things back in the 50s, and made millions, you know?
  And I was out at the, we were,
  Mace Neufeld and Bob Ramey had contacted me,
  the guys that do all the Tom Clancy movies.
  They wanted to do the Iran-Contra movie,
  and so they contacted me to talk with them down in LA,
  and I was down in the office,
  with Bob Ramey, who was the president
  of the Academy of Arts and Science.
  He was the head of the Oscars thing, you know?
  And so we were talking with him and his executive,
  his exec, his name, I forgot his name right,
  but anyway, that he contacts me and said,
  he said, look, there's a friend of mine
  that wants to talk to you, you know?
  He told me not to say who he is,
  but would you trust me to take you there to him?
  So I said, okay, we'll do that.
  So we went out and, what was the guy's name?
  Anyway, we go out, get into his big red Cadillac convertible,
  and we drive off into Warner Brothers,
  and we go over to the Warner Brothers lot,
  and we go in, and it turns out that it's Bill Todman's son
  of Martin Goodson and Bill Todman.
  So here's his son, who's now, I don't know,
  an exec at Warner Brothers, you know?
  And he wanted to tell me about an experience
  that he had had, and that he had, he was in college,
  and he was on summer break, and he was in the Tetons,
  outside of Boulder, and he was climbing in the Tetons,
  and he came up into this meadow, and there was a UFO
  just sitting right, hovering right there in the meadow,
  and he walked all the way over to it and put his hand on it.
  And he said, and it was like alive, he said,
  this is alive, this thing, you know?
  And then the whole thing started kind of shuddering
  and raised up, so he backed away from it,
  and it just went, went, and shot away.
  Whoa!
  And he wouldn't, he didn't dare tell anybody,
  because he thought that it would ruin his whole reputation
  and stuff in the industry.
  But it turns out that he said that his father,
  Mark Goodson Sr., or Bill Todman Sr., was best friends
  with this big famous author that writes these romance novels.
  Anyway, that, and he wrote a book about it,
  partly because Bill Todman Jr. told him
  that he'd had this experience.
  He wrote a thing called The Doomsday,
  The Doomsday Plan or something.
  Who's the author?
  Sidney Sheldon, his name was.
  Mm.
  He wrote like 50 of these books,
  made millions of dollars.
  He, too, wouldn't dare ever be public about it,
  so he wrote this book called The Doomsday Project,
  you know, a hypothetical of a saucer that had crashed
  in a tour bus over in Italy or somewhere.
  It happened to be driving by
  when they were doing a recovery of it.
  And so this young lieutenant colonel,
  in the Naval Intelligence,
  was assigned to find out where all the people were
  that were on the bus that saw this,
  because they just wanted to explain to them
  that this was just an experimental thing,
  you know, so that they wouldn't be distressed.
  Well, it turns out they all started getting killed,
  all these witnesses.
  And so Sidney Sheldon wrote this book.
  It's complete fiction about it.
  And that's the only time he ever said anything about it.
  Wow.
  And then went right back to his,
  his normal life.
  Wow.
  And so, so Bill Todman Jr. wanted me to know about this,
  just to tell me.
  And so I've been constantly trying to get him
  over the years, said, why don't you, Go public, yeah.
  You got more money than the Pope, you know,
  now for your inheritance, why don't you,
  He won't do it?
  He still hasn't agreed to do anything.
  Well, you've done it for him now.
  Yeah.
  But.
  Yeah, Bill Todman,
  because he was perfectly honest about it.
  I didn't have any doubt that it was true.
  Sure, sure.
  Yeah.
  Well.
  He's a real nice guy.
  Yeah.
  But it still hasn't done anything.
[2:39:10] Jeremy Ris:
  Danny, it's exciting times right now.
  Do you have a prediction for the next three months
  of disclosure and the UFO truth getting out?
[2:39:18] Unknown Guest:
  Some of it's easy.
  So, you know, the, the, the,
  the Senate bill is going to get repassed, you know,
  all 64 pages, exactly the same.
  It's a Senator Rounds.
  Rounds is going to sponsor it.
  From South Dakota.
  Yeah, from South Dakota.
  He's going to sponsor it.
  And I'm, I'm, I'm sure that, that, that the,
  the, the Schumer will co-sponsor it.
  We don't, we don't, we don't have Marco around anymore.
  Rubio.
  Rubio to sponsor, but, but, you know,
  we're hoping to try to get State Department in on this.
  Okay.
  Because there's this whole State Department dimension
  that is totally inappropriate for the State Department
  not to have been brought in on this.
  I mean, you're dealing with an entire foreign power here
  and they're being axed out.
  So, I mean, now that Rubio, Rubio, Rubio, Rubio, Rubio.
  goes over there, you know, he ought to.
[2:40:08] Jeremy Ris:
  Yeah, he's very interested. Yeah, sure.
  In on record on, you know, this whole topic and.
  Sure he is.
  You know, one of his aides was probably as deep as it gets
  on the topic as well and was sort of, you know,
  I think encountered a bunch of obstacles
  as a result of his involvement.
[2:40:23] Unknown Guest:
  Yeah, yeah.
  So, so the bottom line is they're going to,
  they're going to, the Senate is going to pass
  the, the 64 page bill again.
  Probably around the middle of July.
  Between July 15th, 20th or so.
  20th or so that they'll they'll pass it and they'll send it on over the
  house you know we're
  we're focusing on crenshaw crenshaw you know dan crenshaw is now the new
  head of the intelligence
  committee in the house and that's where we ran into trouble before it was
  primarily mike turner
  who was the the uh congressman from ohio right part right patterson uh
  district you know it was
  it was stopping the the full bill from being passed crenshaw pro ufo and
  transparency we don't
  know yet we're trying to get but he's he's uh he's certainly not uh anywhere
  near as bad as
  turner was you know turner had his own personal agenda because of his
  constituency there you know
  with the with the base but but crenshaw's a a guy that's you know been
  critical of things he
  doesn't agree with he's he's kind of a bit of a maverick
  uh and he's got a lot of integrity you know tough guy you know it's a is a
  seal team dude you know
  but uh but i touch yeah yeah yeah but he's not he's not just kind of a
  knee-jerk reactionary
  yeah you know so he's there's a real promise there and so we're going to be
  meeting with him and his
  staff to try to get him to see if he can give a a leadership in the
  intelligence committee to
  green light the full bill you know or at least a lot more of it yeah we've
  gotten 23 pages
  uh of the 64 passed with unfortunate some amendments even that part yep but
  but the
  bottom line what we're after is the appointment of the board that we we want
  to get that portion
  of the 64 page bill done at least this time around is to get the get the the
  the panel
  appointed you know now one of the challenges is that well our new paradigm
  institute is one of
  the groups that's authorized to to make recommendations uh uh uh uh uh uh uh
  uh uh uh
  under the statute uh but the president is the one ultimately decides who's
  going to what who's
  going to appoint the congress can mandate that he do it they can pass the
  statute and say the
  president is to appoint this board you know uh but then he could you know he
  could appoint
  his daughter you know to be on it or whatever he wants to do and so we're
  we're going to try to
  appoint we're trying to recommend uh a group that is this sort of
  almost beyond uh beyond criticism you know the kind of kind of people you'd
  really want to have
  there uh and then hope that that will cause trump to say okay good that's a
  good group let's have
  them do it uh so we're hoping this year or at least this side of the next
  election this side
  of the election in 2026 to get uh an additional chunk of the 64 page bill
  passed specifically
  the part having to do with
  the with the board okay and uh we're going to have you know it's going to be
  a dynamic going on with
  this board they're going to be a lot of people inside the national security
  infrastructure
  they're going to want to have people in there that are going to continue to
  keep it as
  sphinctered as possible uh you know uh and then there's going to be lots of
  people putting
  pressure on us to try to have it be you know here let's have it all you know
  like like uh
  bruschette you know let's just order the president to reveal everything
  right now just
  dump it on everybody you know that's so there's there are extremes all
  around us here but what
  we're trying to do is kind of navigate our way through to to really the the
  dynamic that's going
  to take place hopefully uh between now and november of 2026 you know uh now
  we've got the we've got
  the uh end of september coming here in 2025 when that's the extension that
  the the uh national
  archives has given to the national security infrastructure and the national
  security infrastructure
  the military services and the intelligence community to to gather together
  all the
  information they've got okay and that that that's in this that's a standing
  order that they've got
  you know it's still got that wiggle language in there saying in there to
  turn it over to the
  national archives as soon as possible you know the the senate bill said
  immediately
  and they gave them the drop dead date of october 20th you know and now
  they've managed to get the
  house to water it down say as soon as possible
  so my sense is their lawyers are going to push back against us but uh so i'm
  not i'm not i i don't
  give it more than a 51 chance you know that we're going to get any kind of
  meaningful release of that information yeah uh and at the end of september
  here well danny you're doing the lord's work and uh godspeed i'm excited to
  see what what happens uh in the next few months and years and uh you're
  you're really important champion for this whole topic and i hope that uh you
  know as as much as i love my own podcast i hope that you go on like tucker
  carlson or joe rogan or something and uh the jfk thing is so important and i
  know both are so interested in it and i i you know i i dabble and like you
  know i've learned you know from oliver stone and you know red uh you know
  mark lane and and jim mars and all these guys and like i think you're the
  best living um retailer of the in a way that is a coherent narrative with
  all the players but you also talk about motives and so i think uh it would
  be great if you um if that was amplified as much as possible no i'd be happy
  to do it you know i did you know no no interview is any better than the
  interviewer uh-huh uh-huh that's true that's true well i think they're both
  great but i mean they more importantly than that they have much bigger
  platforms than me i mean i have a big platform but there's their next level
  so well biggest in the world
  yeah they both seem to be sincerely interested you know and so that's the
  key you know and
  they're not particularly biased or prejudiced in any way about it no and and
  because they
  they straddle different kind of world views you know and reach out to people
  that are adherence
  to different world views it's a valuable forum yeah those both of those guys
  yeah well danny it's an honor man appreciate you taking the time this is
  always awesome yeah always learned so much um thank you so this is a
  question for you so we're doing this is the time for you to go to university
  that you want to go to or you could go to a different institution at any one
  of the universities you want to go to or you could go to a different
  institute that's supported by a different kind of program that may not be as
  good as the one that you're taking what's the reason why you're taking this
  course why is it important for you to take this course because that's what
  it's all about so yeah for me yeah what's the reason why why why why um um