================================================================================
SHERLOCK - American Alchemy - Chris Bledsoe NASA
Enhanced Transcript with Speaker Identification
================================================================================

METADATA:
----------------------------------------
  Duration:      3h 26m 32s
  Language:      EN
  Processed:     2026-01-13 13:07

TRANSCRIPT:
================================================================================
[0:00:00] Chris Bledsoe:
Do you think other people think that you're the Messiah?
I came out of a conference speaking, and when I walked out the door, this mad
lady comes running up to me and tries to kidnap me. What? Yeah.
My job is to share a truth that everyone's been told is not real.
It was 19 years ago, on January the 8th of 2007.
I was down and out and lost everything.
Lost my home, and I'm having to apply for free lunch for my kids.
Sick with Crohn's disease. And if anybody has Crohn's, knows how bad that is.
You know, you're in the restroom 10 times a day.
I was it 20 times a day at that point.
In January of 2007, while fishing with friends in North Carolina, Chris Bledsoe
witnessed a series of bright, intelligently
[0:00:56] Jesse Michels:
moving orbs in the sky. That moment doesn't end.
It starts a series of unexpected, and seemingly miraculous events.
[0:01:05] Chris Bledsoe:
And then my Crohn's was gone. I had no more sickness.
In the days and weeks that follow, the phenomena continue.
The lights appear again and again, sometimes at a distance, sometimes directly
over his home.
He reports numerous encounters that don't resemble crafts, lights, or UFOs at
all.
But what he describes as a luminous, feminine presence, deeply unsettling in its
art, is an archetypal familiarity.
Her communication seems to go beyond the cliches and platitudes of normal
contact experiences. They touch on humanity's deep moral decay.
Cycles of civilizational collapse, judgment, the apocalypse, and renewal.
They revolve around humanity reaching a threshold.
I came back excited to tell it.
That's when the next five years of darkness, I talk about in my book, started.
His UFO experiences only serve to make him more of a pariah in his local
community of Fayetteville, North Carolina, where fundamentalist Christianity is
the only way, and anything paranormal is considered demonic.
NASA and the CIA show up at Bledsoe's door.
And not just anybody at NASA and the CIA.
I'm talking about a high-level NASA mission controller who has worked on
launches at Cape Canaveral since the 2000s. Challenger missions in the 80s.
And he said, I was at the dinner table with the president and handed me that.
[0:02:39] Jesse Michels:
He
[0:02:39] Chris Bledsoe:
said that? Yeah. Whoa. And this, yeah.
Scientists, military, and other intelligence officials follow suit.
They grill Bledsoe on his experiences.
Some imply that certain dates and symbols he's given by the lady align with
things they're already monitoring and have seen from other authoritative
sources.
So they have like a scientific model of how these angels, angels work at NASA.
They know a lot more than we know than we think they do.
I personally don't know what Chris Bledsoe experienced and continues to
experience to this day.
But I know that his story doesn't sit at the edge of history forever.
It's either going to collapse under scrutiny or force us to redraw the map.
In this special episode of American Alchemy, we have a markedly different
conversation than the one that Chris Bledsoe is used to having.
He took you to Zanesville, Ohio, where you recovered a little piece of metal?
Yeah. Do you know who's from Zanesville,
[0:03:39] Jesse Michels:
Ohio?
[0:03:39] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah, I do. T. Townsend Brown, right? What?
Instead of just retelling his story, we make some pretty mind-blowing
connections from it.
Ones involving secret societies with access to time travel, anti-gravity
experiments done in mid-century America, space metal with curious properties
that interact with consciousness in weird ways.
What exists on the dark side of the moon?
And what the world will look like in the next decade?
So without further ado, sit back, relax, and prepare to ascend into the astral
plane with this week's American Alchemist, Christopher Bledsoe.
This has been a long time coming.
I'm here with Chris Bledsoe, who many call kind of a super-experiencer because I
was just rereading your book, UFO of God, and your life is really just
remarkable.
You've had all these incredible, deep experiences, and I want to talk about
those experiences.
But I also want to talk, because your story is well-known at this point.
I also want to talk about some of the deeper philosophies that you've kind of
come into based on your experiences and maybe have kind of a metaphysical
conversation.
But I want to start with this very interesting discussion that we just kind of
sparked up as you were walking in, which is you have this golden pin on your
jacket. What is that pin?
Well, that pin was given me by someone everybody has read about, right?
Down at Cape Canaveral, without saying names. Okay.
And it signifies being off-planet.
So from what I'm told, the people that get these have been in space before.
So astronauts, pretty much. Right, right.
And why do you think this person gave that pin to you?
At the time, I had no clue. I had no clue other than what they were telling me.
It involved taking me into the astronaut crew quarters and going through a whole
thing, because I was, in other words, when this thing first happened, this
person from NASA came to my house with a backpack and a whole lot of credentials
that had everything from Area 51 to the CIA and all that combined, NASA.
And he tested the whole thing, tested the whole family with metal.
He put a piece of metal in my hand. I was the last one to be tested.
So all my, four of my kids and my wife, they all went into this one room.
So she got Ryan. He got Ryan as the first one and kind of made it secret.
He took Ryan into a room, tested him, and said, now you go get the next person,
but don't tell them.
So he went out and got each person in the family, tested them with this metal.
They brought me in last. And I had no idea what I was doing.
I sat down on the edge of the bed. It was in Ryan's room.
And he put this piece of metal right here.
And I said, what do you think of that?
I said, well, it looks like a piece of aluminum, like a postage stamp.
Size, that size, thin.
[0:06:59] Jesse Michels:
Was it
[0:06:59] Chris Bledsoe:
light? Very light, yeah. It was kind of a dull gray. It wasn't like shiny.
It was aluminum of some sort.
And he reaches in his backpack and pulls out another piece of metal that was
different. And it was like aluminum foil. Looked like foil.
And it wasn't creased.
You couldn't crease it, but it would wrinkle, but it would hold back out.
But it wouldn't crease. You couldn't crease it.
You could, it would kind of roll up and then straighten out.
But when he put that in this hand, it somehow or another created this current
that went through where it was communicating.
This part of the metal was communicating with that part of the metal.
And when that happened, it caused me to, my eyes to roll back.
And he reached up and snatched it out of my hand real quick and said, why you?
This is in the book, by the way. And I had no idea what happened.
He said, why you this close? I said, excuse me, what do you mean, what I mean?
He said, well, I would have known you were lying about being taken if you hadn't
had a reaction to this.
And he said, I've only ever seen two others and they were nothing like yours.
That's what he told me.
So that started the next two, three years studying with them.
And I'm being kind to my friend without saying his name, but
[0:08:31] Jesse Michels:
you know who I'm talking about. I know
[0:08:32] Chris Bledsoe:
who you're talking about. Can
[0:08:34] Jesse Michels:
I say who it is? Because
[0:08:35] Chris Bledsoe:
it's, I think it's Tim Taylor, who's
[0:08:37] Jesse Michels:
a NASA
[0:08:37] Chris Bledsoe:
mission controller, who, yeah, his name is now sort of out there.
And yeah, we should definitely be respectful to him as somebody who doesn't.
Maybe want to do public interviews himself,
[0:08:49] Jesse Michels:
but I think
[0:08:49] Chris Bledsoe:
he's put himself out there enough to, you know.
So who is this Timothy Taylor figure showing up in Bledsoe's life?
He's a mysterious rocket scientist who's done mission control for NASA since the
80s.
That part is not really disputed and it's well-documented in his autobiography,
Launch Fever.
At one point, Tim Taylor even had a small YouTube account with videos showing
his deep levels of access to NASA facilities.
He's also taken people like Bledsoe through Kennedy Space Center.
Religious studies professor Diana Pasolka, along with others, have said that
he's worked directly with Elon Musk.
But where it gets interesting is that he's also popping up in the lives of
numerous UFO experiencers, claiming that he's a time
[0:09:34] Jesse Michels:
traveler and works for an angel.
Basically, he exists at the intersection between rigorous real-world
[0:09:42] Chris Bledsoe:
aerospace work and totally insane UFO lore. And that's why he's still amazing.
He's one of American Alchemy's most requested guests.
Some of the things that Tim Taylor told Chris would wholesale overhaul our
understanding of reality, if at all true.
Really smart guy, like genius level, and, uh. Really? Yeah.
I enjoyed his company. We did a lot of stuff together. We traveled together.
Um, we were able to recover some metal together. Wow. Yeah. I didn't know that.
Yeah. I was in Ohio. In Ohio? Yeah. Where in Ohio?
In a little town called Zanes, well. Zanesville. Zanesville, yeah.
Zanesville, Ohio. Yeah. Do you know who's from Zanesville,
[0:10:31] Jesse Michels:
Ohio? Yeah, I
[0:10:32] Chris Bledsoe:
do. T-town's in Brown, right? What?
He took you to Zanesville, Ohio, where you recovered a little piece of metal?
Yeah. A pretty good piece, about that big. You're sure you went to Zanesville?
Yeah.
In fact, I went in a machine shop, he and I, and had a piece sawed off the
metal, which he took with them.
And we gave the other piece back to the person that had it.
And I knew the person, and he wouldn't give it to anyone in the world, but he
called me and he drives up in his yard and there's this red piece of glowing, he
sees this thing over his house and it goes away when he drives up, but there was
a piece of red glowing metal in the yard.
He lets it cool, picks it up and puts it in a shoe box and there it stays for 15
years. No way.
And when he found out about me and read the story, he calls me and says, I got
something I want you to see. And so I called Taylor and he and I flew up there.
This is either engineered to make me excited or this is the most remarkable
story ever. I almost lost it during this part of the interview.
Zanesville, Ohio, is where Thomas Townsend Brown was born.
To me, Townsend Brown is the most interesting historical figure in the 20th
century that no one knows about.
I've independently uncovered an absurd amount of information that leads me to
believe that Townsend Brown essentially discovered anti-gravity in the 1950s.
He was funded by the same physics patrons at the University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill that sent science down the wrong path with quantum gravity in 1957.
He was also backed by the highest levels of CIA and aerospace.
There are even videos of Townsend Brown at the University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill celebrating because his experiments presumably worked.
Here he is with a bottle of champagne.
And we know due to real declassified documents written by the head of
Australia's nuclear program, Harry Turner, and often cited by UFO whistleblower,
David Grush, that University of North Carolina Chapel Hill was waist deep in
anti-gravity research.
We also have a deathbed confession of French aerospace representative, Jacques
Corneillon, saying that Townsend Brown's experiments worked in Paris, in the
Montgolfier facility in 1956. The tests were very, very, very tricky.
It was sensitive to so many things in vacuum.
Finally it worked, so that was a positive result.
And that's just the tip of the spear.
We also have Carl Nell, who helped set up army the Futures Command, which led
all tech modernization efforts for the army, implying that Townsend Brown made
breakthroughs in the world of gravity.
Jesse's done a number of podcasts looking into Townsend Brown and some other
very interesting, like, heretical technologies.
So I'd invite people, an unsolicited plug, to check out some of Jesse's
podcasts.
Not to mention NASA's top scientist in electrostatics, Charles Buehler,
literally leaving NASA to start a propellant plant.
It's a thoughtless, gravity-based propulsion system that he says is a derivative
of Townsend Brown's
[0:13:56] Jesse Michels:
work.
The term asymmetric electrical pressure is similar to Thomas Townsend Brown's
research into asymmetrical capacitors.
Those older papers and that older subject matter is probably valid for most
[0:14:11] Chris Bledsoe:
of the point. I could go on, but I'll spare you.
The fact that Chris Bledsoe was taken to Zanesville, Ohio, an otherwise
completely unremarkable little Ohio town, is a very unlikely coincidence.
And the fact that the goal there was to retrieve an exotic piece of metal seems
even more unlikely, especially given that Tim Taylor was escorting Bledsoe
there.
As you're about to hear in this conversation, there are tons of other bizarre
connections between NASA mission controller Tim Taylor and mid-century anti-
gravity inventor Townsend Brown. This episode is sponsored by Superpower.
On this show, we spend all of our time trying to understand reality, but most of
us are simply guessing when it comes to our own health.
With conventional healthcare, you're firing totally blindly.
You go to the doctor, you get a few basic labs, and you're told everything looks
normal.
But that thing that doesn't feel great, the chronic headaches, the stomach pain,
the back pain, you don't ever really get insight on any of it.
You don't get the proper data you need.
You get no actionable insights and no real plan.
That's why Superpower caught my attention.
Superpower gives you a deep look at what's actually happening inside your body.
It's a single blood draw, either at home or a nearby lab, and they measure over
100 biomarkers, way more than a standard physical.
You get real data on things like hormones, metabolism, heart health, vitamin and
mineral levels, even environmental toxins, toxins that can accumulate and cause
very bad things to happen in your body.
What I like is that Superpower doesn't stop at the numbers.
They turn those results into a clear, personalized action plan, With nutrition,
what supplements actually make sense for you, lifestyle adjustments.
You can even get your true biological age and can track how that changes over
time.
Instead of guessing when it comes to your health, you finally have a map, your
full health blueprint activated with Superpower.
Not only did Superpower reduce their price to just $199, but for a limited time,
our listeners get an additional $20 off with code ALCHEMY.
Again, that's Superpower.
Head to Superpower.com and use code ALCHEMY at checkout for $20 off your
membership. After you sign up, they'll ask you how you heard about them.
Please make sure to mention this podcast to support the show.
And so if there's a connection between this NASA mission controller who's
obsessed with UFOs and this mid-century anti-gravity inventor, and then you're
literally going to Zanesville, Ohio to collect UFO material, which is where it's
a, that's a random place. And that's
[0:16:57] Jesse Michels:
where
[0:16:58] Chris Bledsoe:
Townsend Brown was born in 1905.
And there's their newspaper, you know, clippings of him creating, you know,
wireless telegram basically at the age of 12

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:17:10] Jesse Michels:
or
[0:17:11] Chris Bledsoe:
something. That's crazy. Yeah. True story. That's so crazy.
And I can show you the metal. I'll give you a picture of it. Can't please? Yeah.
Can I feel the metal? Well, I don't own it.
[0:17:22] Jesse Michels:
You don't
[0:17:23] Chris Bledsoe:
own it. Okay. Yeah. Tim has it. I would love, I would love to see the picture.
Yeah. And learn anything else about the Zanesville trip.
That's just fascinating. Tim got it originally. And then Dr.
Putoff got another piece of it. Putoff got another piece.
So I took Tom DeLonge and Lou Elizondo to Zanesville or to Pennsylvania or Ohio,
I mean. You took them to Ohio, to Zanesville?
I took them to the same guy's house and got them a piece of it as well.
Were Tom DeLonge and Lou aware of Townsend Brown? I didn't discuss it with them.
[0:17:57] Jesse Michels:
You didn't
[0:17:57] Chris Bledsoe:
discuss that with them? No. So
[0:18:00] Jesse Michels:
do you- But
[0:18:00] Chris Bledsoe:
that's where some of their metal came from.
Plus some that I had, I had three pieces of it.
Do you think Putoff knows about Townsend Brown? Yeah. He does? Yeah, I'm sure.
Yeah, he told me he met him. Yeah.
But that he never, you know, he didn't know how far he got,
[0:18:18] Jesse Michels:
you know,
[0:18:18] Chris Bledsoe:
sort of thing. Right, right.
But how, you know, how it can be a little cheeky, but interesting. Yeah.
For the audience.
I mean, I'm sure they know this, but I'm obsessed with this mid-century anti-
gravity inventor, Thomas Townsend Brown, who I am very convinced made real
updates in the world of gravity.
He was a very nuts and bolts, you know, inventor.
And he worked at the highest levels of military government with every kind of
aerospace company you could guess.
I mean, there's an FBI document on him saying he was the foremost radar expert
in the Navy.
And he was in charge of the Philadelphia experiment, actually, which has all
this lore about it.
And who knows whether the, you know, prima facie story of that is true.
But he was at, you know, Martin Vega, the year that Skunk Works formed. Right.
He, you know, knew Curtis LeMay, knew Bill Lear, the inventor of the Learjet.
Right.
He was being funded by the guys who were sending physics down the wrong path
while he was doing his, I think, more vital kind of anti-gravity experiments.
But the kind of subplot of his life is that gravity and time are very
interrelated in general relativity. And what I found so fascinating
[0:19:34] Jesse Michels:
is
[0:19:34] Chris Bledsoe:
I made this whole documentary on Thomas Townsend Brown.
And at the end of the documentary, I make this connection that Tim Taylor told
your son, Ryan Bledsoe, that he was part of a secret time travel group in
Nassau, in the Bahamas, and that Thomas Townsend Brown was the president.
And even then, maybe I would have dismissed it out of hand, but I had become
this amateur historian of Townsend Brown, and he would always go to Nassau, in
the Bahamas.
And then if you read Tim Taylor's biography, Launch Fever, he's in Nassau a lot.
So that does kind of place them both in, you know,
[0:20:09] Jesse Michels:
in
[0:20:09] Chris Bledsoe:
Nassau at some times. It's called the Nassau Group. The Nassau Group. Yeah.
So he took you to, was the piece of metal, this UFO metal in Zanesville related
to Townsend Brown at all, or? Well, there was a lot of conversation about that.
And the amount of activity around that place, he said, was all part of the land,
because where this metal was found, it was near the Indian Serpent Mound. Right.
So they know that there's a lot of activity.
And he told me stories about Townsend Brown.
What did he say about Townsend Brown?
Well, you know, his daughter was doing a book, and Tim was helping her with that
book. Tim was helping her with that
[0:20:50] Jesse Michels:
book? Yeah,
[0:20:50] Chris Bledsoe:
he helped write that book, her book. I didn't know that.
I do know, I found an Amazon review from his daughter about Tim Taylor's book,
Launch Fever.
And this was before anybody knew about, you know, Tim Taylor, because he hadn't
even been written about, you know, pseudonymously
[0:21:08] Jesse Michels:
in
[0:21:08] Chris Bledsoe:
American Cosmic by Dana Pasulka. This is in the early 2010s. Yeah.
So he was helping Linda Brown write her
[0:21:17] Jesse Michels:
book. Write
[0:21:17] Chris Bledsoe:
her book, yeah. I didn't
[0:21:19] Jesse Michels:
know
[0:21:19] Chris Bledsoe:
that. That's amazing. And what did he say about Townsend Brown? Yeah.
What did he say about Townsend Brown himself?
He told me he'd heard stories of these little things coming and landing in his
yard and getting out and giving him information. That's real.
[0:21:33] Jesse Michels:
Well, at
[0:21:34] Chris Bledsoe:
least according to his daughter, his daughter did a sort of AMA on, you know,
Ask Me Anything on Reddit.
She talked about beings coming down and then entering, I think it was like, she
was in the, they were in the kitchen with her dad and her, and they were these
sort of pale skinned, you know, looked alien, like looked from a, you know, like
they were from another planet or existed in another environment.
And they talked all night.
And then, you know, they wake up the next morning, she thinks it's a dream.
And then two nights later, they're at dinner and she brings up the dream and
Thomas Townsend Brown goes, that wasn't a dream
[0:22:14] Jesse Michels:
or something like that.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:22:15] Chris Bledsoe:
Right, exactly. Wow.
Did he ever insinuate on what the Nassau group, this time travel group in the
Bahamas, right? Thomas was doing? He didn't. He didn't.
He just told me at one point that he thought I may have to go hide out there a
while. Really?
[0:22:35] Jesse Michels:
That was when
[0:22:37] Chris Bledsoe:
it really first happened way back. Because it was a dangerous place.
[0:22:43] Jesse Michels:
The
[0:22:43] Chris Bledsoe:
whole world was different in 2008.
It was the highest secured thing in the world.
The UFO was more classified higher than the nuclear bomb.
But you would have to hang out in Nassau.
Well, they mentioned that I may have to go there for protection. Interesting.
Yeah. So what's there? I don't know. I just, that was all he told me.
You know, he writes in Launch Fever, his biography, about flying these cargo
jets back and forth between Florida
[0:23:15] Jesse Michels:
and
[0:23:16] Chris Bledsoe:
Nassau.
And I think the guy he was flying with was like selling drugs and he didn't even
know about it. Like
[0:23:24] Jesse Michels:
it was
[0:23:24] Chris Bledsoe:
like, he was just kind of being like along for
[0:23:27] Jesse Michels:
the
[0:23:27] Chris Bledsoe:
ride or whatever. But then he says some really trippy things around.
He goes, time moved differently in Nassau.
But he's saying it like it's like island time, you know?
So it's like, and then you're like, is that coded?
Cause he's telling you, you know, and Diana Pasolka about the adjustment bureau
and like, you know, timeline hopping.
And then he's saying time moves different in this Nassau group, in Nassau.
But then he's also telling your son and you, that he's in a secret time travel
group with Townsend Brown in Nassau. So I'm like, is he writing in code there?
Probably,
[0:24:03] Jesse Michels:
yeah. Those
[0:24:03] Chris Bledsoe:
guys are all about, yeah, they're so super secretive.
They can, they'll tell you things and code like that.
It's up to you to get it or not, but
[0:24:15] Jesse Michels:
yeah.
[0:24:17] Chris Bledsoe:
I want to meet the Nassau group. How do we do that? I have no idea.
I don't know how I would find them or why. Well, it's just a lot.
But I just have no idea where I was when I was in , I was just, that was
something told to me years ago and Ryan heard it and it never left me.
But as far as where and how and who, I don't know. We never got involved.
Yeah, cause , it's so like, the world's so interesting.
Cause he also, I believe he told you and I think Diana Pasolka that, you know,
he said, read the adjustment team or watch the adjustment bureau. Yeah. Yeah.
was a philip k dick book right and then this movie with matt damon and it's all
about adjusting little variables to change timelines
[0:25:03] Jesse Michels:
right and
[0:25:04] Chris Bledsoe:
he viewed his role in reality as doing that right and so do you think he
actually viewed his role as as doing that as part of this sort of timeline
adjustment
[0:25:16] Jesse Michels:
you
[0:25:16] Chris Bledsoe:
mean tim tim taylor yeah he's told me he was the one who told me to read to
watch the movie he said that movie was created for a reason watch it it's a lot
like that and um then he said and in that movie you'll find a character named
the hammer and he said and i work for the hammer and the hammer works for god
i'm like you gotta tell me more than that and that's all he would tell me he
said i work for the hammer and the hammer works for god and you what do you
think the hammer is well in the movie he's in like an arcane angel he's the guy
that the lesser beings couldn't couldn't stop what was happening because of love
you know if you watch the movie that's so fascinating so they send the hammer
down to to take care of it and of course i won't spoil the movie but yeah it
ends up well yeah but yeah well i mean do you do you think that he's in touch
with a celestial being with an angel he insinuated that and um i can probably
believe that yeah something
[0:26:35] Jesse Michels:
yeah
[0:26:36] Chris Bledsoe:
whether it's an angel or what i don't know so what would the because he seems to
show up in a lot of you know super experiencers lives so there
[0:26:44] Jesse Michels:
are
[0:26:44] Chris Bledsoe:
people who've had experiences here and there and then there are people like you
who have repeated experiences and a lot of interactions with this other world
right and i found it very interesting that he showed up in charles hall's life
and then he shows up in your life um i think he knew whitley streber as well
[0:27:05] UNKNOWN:
um
[0:27:06] Chris Bledsoe:
you say timothy taylor yeah oh he's a good friend of ours oh so you know you
know timothy taylor he came here because he found out about charles and that was
when his daughter the one who had the the baby was like what was she doing maybe
in fifth grade when they came the first time yeah we why do you think he was he
became interested in your story my

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:27:34] Jesse Michels:
wife can answer all the
[0:27:35] Chris Bledsoe:
questions because he he realized that as far as he was concerned that charles
was the the real article was legitimate and as i say it's really concerned me
because i've tried to email other people because he brought other people to meet
us and a visit with us they they one of the guys cooked right here in my kitchen
and so i tried to contact those people because i had in uh emails for them and i
never got a response about what happened to him so what do you what do you think
it is with him do you think there's some mandate from the hammer from this angel
or something to interact with experiencers if he's been truthful about that i
would say that's probably correct there's some kind of mandate guiding him so
he's definitely connected i mean big time do you think he was being truthful or
yeah well you you know sometimes you wonder if it's all uh smoke and mirrors
designed to throw you off course you know but i listened to everything i worked
with him for three or four years before diana met him i introduced diana to tim
we were working on crazy stuff like stem cell research and i have no idea what
that is and what proteins are and anything medical right i'm a carpenter and yet
i'm reading papers at night that they would send me and my job was to draw
whatever came out of me whatever i saw and so usually every week i'm sending in
some sort of diagram of cells and all kinds of things whoa yeah As you know, on
American Alchemy, we cover a lot of technology that goes beyond human limits.
This is about technology that helps the body catch up and feel good.
I'm talking about the iRestore LED face mask, a red light therapy system that
uses clinical grade wavelengths to boost skin cell energy production.
The same exact principle used in the top recovery clinics and bio-optimization
labs in the world.
I've been using it most nights, 10 minutes while I'm reading, prepping for a
show, or decompressing.
It's completely hands-free, comfortable, and engineered to deliver consistent
light intensity across the face. Not that uneven scatter most cheaper masks use.
It feels like your face is taking a warm bath.
What it's doing is called photobiomodulation, stimulating mitochondria to repair
tissue, reduce inflammation, and improve circulation.
You actually feel the calm and rejuvenation after a session. I've tested a few.
This one really stands out for the build quality.
It feels like it was built in a high-precision lab, and it's not just a cheap
beauty gadget.
So if you're into real evidence-based recovery tech, this belongs in your setup.
Head to iRestore.com and use code JESSE25 for an exclusive discount.
Again, iRestore.com, code JESSE25.
Red light therapy has really been a game-changer for me, so I hope you love it.
So it's almost like you were part of a sequel.
It's almost like you were part of a secret science program where you were given
material to look at. You didn't even have context on the material, but
[0:30:57] Jesse Michels:
you were
[0:30:58] Chris Bledsoe:
getting downloads about
[0:30:59] Jesse Michels:
it.
[0:31:00] Chris Bledsoe:
And do you think any of that made it into his, you know, he had a lot of
biomedical patents.
He had a company called Vivex Biotechnologies, which he sold for $88 million.
That's who I was working with.
[0:31:12] Jesse Michels:
That
[0:31:12] Chris Bledsoe:
company. Wow. Yeah.
They were creating what's called a biograph, which was based on... Metal.
The metal that they've recovered and infusing it into this, well, the
particular, and I have video of the operation of a young lady, the first
operation in the United States, was a Spanish lady that had bone cancer in her
thigh, and they removed like two inches of the bone, and they wrapped it with
this biograph, injected stem cells into it, and in like 60 days, her bone had
regrown, the pain was gone, she could walk again. Whoa. Yeah.
Yeah, no, I mean, that is a operational, functional, you know, company that does
real things
[0:32:07] Jesse Michels:
in the
[0:32:07] Chris Bledsoe:
biomedical world.
[0:32:08] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[0:32:09] Chris Bledsoe:
And what makes it fascinating is that maybe the backdrop of that company is
recovered UFO material. Exactly.
And somebody like you intuitively downloading the functionality. I
[0:32:21] Jesse Michels:
don't know how
[0:32:21] Chris Bledsoe:
much good I did, right? But I...
It was to come from a carpenter being ridiculed by the whole community to
secretly drawing diagrams for NASA was, you know, it was a pretty cool thing.
Well, you know, you have all these rumors of like Philip J.
Corso and, you know, him being involved in, you know, I think the Army's, you
know, foreign technology desk and transferring, you know, crash materials from
Roswell, for example, to Bell Labs, so they could...
You know, help build, you know, semiconductors, things like that. Right.
But what you don't hear of is people download, people like yourself who are
intuitively kind of tapped in downloading... Right.
...aspects of the functionality of some of these technologies.
That's really interesting. Well, that... I'm learning.
I'm learning over the last night.
It's been 19 years I've been doing this, right? A long time.
And in that time, I've learned a lot and I keep learning every day. But I...
There is a great correlation with the phenomenon guiding us and creating things
in our path.
And if you're smart enough and you pay attention to that, all kinds of things
come. It's like being Sherlock Holmes. I'm like, oh, boy, what's next?
[0:33:43] Jesse Michels:
You know,
[0:33:44] Chris Bledsoe:
so that's kind of the way I've modeled my life is letting it guide my path
rather than me try to drive the bus. I let... Let... I call it the lady, right?
Or that, the phenomenon. Yeah. Yeah, the... It's like the way is not the way.
Like,
[0:34:03] Jesse Michels:
you
[0:34:03] Chris Bledsoe:
have to... You have to...
Or I think there's a concept called Wu Wei, which is effortless effort.
And there's sort of sitting back, being receptive, listening to the signs, and
then just kind of, you know, following the path.
[0:34:17] Jesse Michels:
Right.
[0:34:17] Chris Bledsoe:
And that's an art.
You know, it's easy to get into this mode of being attached and trying to over-
engineer outcomes. Exactly. For example, in the music world, I happened to...
I wrote about something that happened. And I was given a message that there...
That the divine world encodes messages within the music that we listen to, and
we just don't know it, right? So it's being channeled by these musicians.
And that led me on... I'll tell you how manifestation works. It's because...
When I was given that information, I was given five or six songs. Six.
Five right away and one at another point.
And when I read the lyrics on it, it was like, oh, my God, this is crazy.
This is crazy. I couldn't believe it.
You hear these songs, but you never read the words.
Well, that day in 2012, I said, Lord, I wish I could tell Sammy Hagar from Van
Halen or Robert Plant. Or Jimmy Page or Neil Young. These are the guys...
Or Metallica, right?
These are the guys that I just said the simple little prayer.
You know, right off the top of my head, Lord, I wish I could tell them.
Wow, this is what I was thinking. Last year, on my birthday, I get a phone call.
And it's Sammy's wife, Kari. And we become friends.
And then it turned into Kurt Hammett with Metallica.
And then I get a text from my friend.
He said, hey, Chris, I'm in the pub in England.
And sitting beside me is Robert Plant. And he's reading your book. No way.
[0:36:12] Jesse Michels:
That's crazy.
[0:36:13] Chris Bledsoe:
And he sent you a happy birthday.
And the same two days later, I get a call from Fred Durst, Limp Bizkit.
Oh, yeah. Well, he's super into UFOs.
[0:36:21] Jesse Michels:
I love Fred. I think he has a UFO podcast. Yeah.
[0:36:23] Chris Bledsoe:
I've been on his podcast. Cool. So, anyhow, it just all poured out.
And it manifested. I didn't do it. I didn't seek these people out.
They called me.
And now that's Sammy told me that the song Love Walks In, he don't even know
where the words came from. It just came out of him.
And this song is like, you have to read the lyrics on it. Wow. Yeah.
Well, I didn't even.
I mean, it's crazy how much music is influenced by this stuff.
Like, I think Paul McCartney.
One of the Beatles had a dream about a flaming pie. Right.
And that was how the Beatles name came about somehow. I didn't know.
[0:37:07] Jesse Michels:
It was going to

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:37:08] Chris Bledsoe:
be spelled differently.
[0:37:09] Jesse Michels:
Wow.
[0:37:09] Chris Bledsoe:
Beatles.
And then it moved into B-A-T-L-E-S after this flaming pie came down in this
dream or something. That is.
And so, yeah, you have a lot of these sort of stories. That's amazing. Yeah.
Do you think that, you know, because we often think of like, you know, the
aerospace world.
That's interested in a lot of what you're doing is very kind of nuts and bolts
focused. Not.
They don't care about, you know, downloads or experiences or whatever.
Do you feel like they really do?
They are really interested in the phenomenon and they are learning from it as
much as they are just, you know, writing equations on chalkboards.
A million percent. In fact, in the last year I've seen or two years, I've seen.
A huge increase in the scientists, mainstream scientists that,
[0:38:06] Jesse Michels:
you
[0:38:06] Chris Bledsoe:
know, forever like Diana. She was the first Ph.D.
that would even talk about this, right?
And back then, if you even said this out loud, people would laugh and walk away.
Nobody would talk. But now, there's over 200 mainstream scientists right now.
That was the word I was told by Dr. Estevez, Anna Brady Estevez.
[0:38:30] Jesse Michels:
Oh, yeah. She's been.
[0:38:32] Chris Bledsoe:
We're still coming out with something cool. Yeah. Yeah. But she.
American deep tech.
She's told me that there's at least 200 scientists that want to start working on
this thing. It's fascinating.
[0:38:47] Jesse Michels:
Yeah,
[0:38:47] Chris Bledsoe:
it's fascinating.
[0:38:48] Jesse Michels:
And
[0:38:48] Chris Bledsoe:
it almost feels like at times the scientists are being coordinated on a higher
level. Yeah.
And this gets into like the three body problem or, you know, science fiction
novels like that where, you know, the way that.
That the phenomena speaks to us is through scientific discoveries, innovation,
through serendipitous meetings between scientists.
[0:39:08] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[0:39:09] Chris Bledsoe:
And I'm sure it's the same thing with art and other creation.
Big time and to the creativity world, artists of all kinds.
In other words, I don't mean to interrupt, but if I had to say of all the people
that call me that the majority of these experiencers, a good majority of them
will be artists.
That paint that make music that act are different type of people and created
people.
And for some reason, they're the ones that have a lot of this experience and
have been for years. Makes sense that they'd be tapped in.
I think it's more interesting in a sense that somebody like, you know, I've
spoken to how put off about this and he goes, I always follow the
synchronicities and when they stop, I know I'm on the wrong path or whatever.
And it's like, this guy is a very.
Serious scientist who's popping up, not only in areas of quote unquote, UFO
science, but in, you know, prosaically very interesting science. Right.
So pretty serious guy. Yeah. And we were talking outside.
It sounds like you're in touch with some Lockheed guys too. Yeah.
What's what's the deal there? Well, I have friends everywhere. This
[0:40:28] Jesse Michels:
is no
[0:40:28] Chris Bledsoe:
shortage of people from NASA.
Uh, from Lockheed, from three, um, from, uh, from all over these scientists, but
my, uh, I haven't have a friend that is a material scientist that works with
this material and, um, he kind of stays pretty close to me, following me about,
and we, we travel together and we study together and doing a lot of things right
now. Interesting. Yeah. Who's that? I can't
[0:41:01] Jesse Michels:
do this.
[0:41:01] Chris Bledsoe:
Does he, uh, work at a, a big aerospace corporation or?
He, uh, well, he, yeah, you'll see him one day at, uh, he lives in Silicon
Valley, but you'll see him one day.
He'll be in a skiff somewhere under an airport or he'll be in, uh, at NASA or
he'll be somewhere in amongst all that. Um,
[0:41:28] Jesse Michels:
yeah.
[0:41:28] Chris Bledsoe:
Fascinating. Yeah. It's so interesting.
He's educated me a lot on this metal and how it acts and, and how it acts
differently in zero gravity than it does on, on ground level.
How does the metal act differently in zero gravity?
It's, um, it, it has a way of, um, well, just, let's just say that the words I
heard, this metal is much, acts much like an animal and that it is always
seeking.
For energy and seeking to connect and how I got this pen was being off planet
and being tested by that metal, knowing that it bonded to me.
So that's why this phenomenon is always around is it is trying to reconnect all
the time.
And because you went up on a craft, you're somehow connected with the metal.
Yeah. How do you think you're connected with it? Into the DNA is all I know.
It's a frequency. I think our DNA.
It's transmitted in a frequency, which I've seen the papers on
[0:42:39] Jesse Michels:
it
[0:42:40] Chris Bledsoe:
and, uh, and, uh, a radar type frequency.
So it's pinging and it's receiving, sending and receiving.
And, um, so it's always, it's always, once it connects with you on that level,
and I'm being very careful not to say a whole lot
[0:42:59] Jesse Michels:
here,
[0:42:59] Chris Bledsoe:
but I get a phone call if I say too much. So, yeah.
Well, they're clearly trying to, cause they know you have a public presence.
They
[0:43:08] Jesse Michels:
are
[0:43:08] Chris Bledsoe:
going to get asked about this stuff, so they want to get it out somewhat would
be my guess, you know, there's a, you know, there's a scientist named
Constantine mile.
He's in the black forest in Germany, and he, uh, talks about, uh, scalar physics
and its relationship with DNA specifically like DNA resonance with these exotic
electromagnetic waves that exist in the scalar field.
Um, which if you think about it.
If we are getting any sort of messages via our DNA, a transverse Hertzian, a
classic electromagnetic wave doesn't really make sense because it decays one at
one over R squared.
So if you're in a Faraday chamber, you're, you know, kind of in some remote
place or whatever, the decay function on a normal electromagnetic wave would be
too stark, uh, for you to really receive a lot of information on going. Right.
Probably.
Which a lot of these kind of deeper aerospace scientists believe possibly exist.
Right.
Um, maybe your body would be able to download and encode a lot more information
and they say they think that the son is a scalar wave generator.
[unclear: Tim Taylor talks about in Diana's book American Cosmic] [inaudible]
cosmic that he's his protocols are around you know you know being in the
sunlight

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:44:38] Jesse Michels:
looking at the sun
[0:44:39] Chris Bledsoe:
well that's it and and um in fact um i've read the paper on it 15 years ago 13
years ago and the thought is that the sun the way it shines at an angle on the
earth it creates the green color spectrum which is the center of the color
spectrum right and in that our um the sun is is affecting what's called adt
which is the hemoglobin in your blood and the chlorophyll implant so it when it
hits that it starts this energy and it starts creating life and so the sun is
telling everything how to be a pear how to be a grass how to be a tree how to be
me or you so all the information of life is coming from that green light
[0:45:33] Jesse Michels:
from
[0:45:33] Chris Bledsoe:
what they're saying it's just constantly sending all information all encoding to
every living thing birds that's where it comes from yeah it's really amazing i
mean there's there's this idea of the anthropic principle which is why is earth
you know this perfect kind of homeostatic like just place that that fosters life
and there you know a couple of different explanations for it one is like we've
tried a million different iterations this is the goldilocks so and we just got
really lucky or whatever to to live in the the the one where it's perfect and
then there's another one which is this has been sort of created or simulated you
know for for life and if you think about the earth's magnetosphere the way it
blocks cosmic radiation but allows just enough cosmic radiation to allow for the
perfect amount of natural selection to allow for you know real real evolution um
but then the magnetosphere of the earth itself like literally the schumann
resonance fosters human and animal morphology right and and this sort of perfect
way if you put a frog embryo in a faraday chamber where that's blocked it
doesn't grow normally so it's this like the these perfect sort of circumstances
so one thing we figured out this past year i was on um john alexander called me
two or three times chris nobody got it and i was like yeah i was on the um this
beyond skinwalker show with brandon fugal right so we were at the monroe
institute and they took me in the basement of the lab and put me in a faraday
cage and it's uh it's silent it's walls like the stick with uh you know i'm in
i'm in the basement of the lab in a build in a basically a coffin is what it
looked like with ceilings are copper and the walls are copper so no
electromagnetic can get in there and so they had all these cameras outside
pointing up at the sky and i'm in this thing and uh they have uh dr thompson
from from new york uh neuros neuro phd and neuroscience was monitoring me and uh
he said if you if you sense a ufo over the complex just point to the ceiling
every time i pointed they were filming something above the the building and that
from that point on um john and a whole lot of other scientists says this proves
this consciousness it's not electromagnetic it's consciousness so it's
instantaneous it's like thoughts which is what's creating everything wow yeah
yeah well if you think of you know we have phonons which are sort of you know
quantum vibration packets and then you photons which are quantum light packets
maybe at some point we'll figure out quantum thought packets or something that's
it it's all thought it's just it's just how it works with me you know i don't
have to go out and speak to get this thing to come i just think about it
[0:48:51] Jesse Michels:
who
[0:48:51] Chris Bledsoe:
knows our thoughts completely and in advance of what you're going to think you
can't fool it wow at all there's no way wow this episode is sponsored by true
classic this is one of my favorite shirts it kind of works for every occasion i
honestly didn't think i cared about t-shirts until i realized how many of them i
don't wear they end up just accumulating in your closet most of them look fine
on a hanger then you put them on and something's off they're too boxy they're
too stiff they're too long or they just kind of hang weird that's the problem
true classic set out to fix they focus on the fit first which in my opinion is
the most important thing about a t-shirt when it comes to a shirt shirts that
sit right on your shoulders and chest relax where they should and don't feel
like you're wearing cardboard the material is also extremely soft breathable and
flexible you put one on and you don't think about it again which is kind of the
goal i've been wearing their shirts for a while now and i always reach for them
when i know i just want a standard quality shirt when i don't want to think
about what i'm wearing but i know i'll be dressed appropriately wearing a
t-shirt you look overly formal you don't look disheveled you look just right
they started with men's basics but now they make clothes for women and kids too
same focus on comfort and fit and they keep the prices extremely reasonable
instead of charging you for a logo and a story this company isn't about trends
or fashion cycles it's about having a consistent standard of quality and a few
pieces you can always go to that won't let you down so if you want to get some
super high quality shirts go to trueclassic.com slash jesse to refresh your
wardrobe for 2026 you can also find them at amazon target costco and sam's club
thank you to true classic for sponsoring today's episode i want to go where
other people haven't gone in interviews with you right do you feel like you know
when you read like uh this is going to sound like a crazy question but like when
you read the book of acts and you know learn about jesus do you feel like he is
a state of being that others can get to through kind of you know really
spiritual profound kind of experiences what diana pasulka calls in her book
hierophanies revelations and again this is not to make him out to be this
exclusive untouchable you know being or state but like maybe maybe some people
can reach a state and do you feel like maybe you're you're in that sort of
consciousness and that allows you to to have 100
[0:51:40] Jesse Michels:
effect on
[0:51:40] Chris Bledsoe:
people yeah 100 and um you know the way i was born and raised a baptist and and
married a pentecostal holiness girl and and you know it was very deep into the
church and loved it and my wife still goes she was at church yesterday and um
for the day before sunday but the way you know when jesus came he he wasn't a
christian he was just saying the kingdom of heaven is within you you you you can
talk to god yourself and you don't need to pay anybody to have that and i don't
think they liked him saying that a whole lot and his life was cut short because
of that well that's one of my favorite lines it's in an apocryphal you know the
gospel of thomas but it's you know if you look to the sea the fish will precede
you
[0:52:33] Jesse Michels:
if you look to the
[0:52:34] Chris Bledsoe:
sky the birds will precede you the kingdom of inside of you exactly and all
around you and um you know and then you'll have hardcore biblical scholars say
oh that was written 150 years later and
[0:52:47] Jesse Michels:
it
[0:52:47] Chris Bledsoe:
doesn't matter that's the words jesus used the kingdom of heaven is within you
that spark that divine spark and and you can yeah do you how do you how do you
because like i feel like my on world view and ontology in some ways matches a
lot of what you're saying of yours and what you say and then i think there are a
lot of people out there who are like who is this guy saying that he sees orbs
and you know that's at 747 or a satellite or whatever what do you say to those
people um you know i expect that i've learned until you see it experience that
um you're just uninformed you
[0:53:33] Jesse Michels:
know
[0:53:33] Chris Bledsoe:
it's real it's 100 real and i have the groups as large as a thousand at one time
with a pa and as the most liberal ufo group you know i've ever been to was
contact in the desert this past summer right and here i am being drugged by the
hand all day you need to be in this room at this time this room at that time
hadn't eaten all day hadn't been to the bathroom and it's like seven o'clock at
night and i'm finally you know and i deal with rheumatoids so my energy levels
are low my wife comes in or the uh my assistant comes and he says oh you got a
sky watch at at at uh nine o'clock it was eight then i'm like oh my god i forgot
all about that huge pressure it's it's cloudy it's raining in palm springs it
never rains in palm springs right it's sprinkling and they said there's a big
group sitting outside waiting on you so i like i'm like i took my told my wife i
said take me somewhere to where nobody can see me because if they see me there
was always 50 people in line right so she took me over to a little seating area
where it was dark and
[0:54:55] Jesse Michels:
i lay
[0:54:55] Chris Bledsoe:
back i looked up at the sky and i said lord i need help i'm stressed tonight
it's raining there's a thousand people out there wanting to see something and
suddenly when i said that my wife sat beside me i heard this telepathic voice
say don't worry about the rain it'll just get more interesting and then i saw
these three orange orbs come down under the clouds and this digital digit it
said 945 just flashed right up i said okay there'll be three orange orbs at 945
so i got up i walked over to the center of a thousand people they're in a big
circle and i'm [unclear] in a 20-foot circle [unclear] kept that where I could
walk around in it with a microphone.
And so I told the whole group an hour in advance, I said at 9.45, there'll be
three orange orbs that appear underneath the clouds.
And exactly at 9.45, it happened. Whoa, do you have video of that? Yeah. Wow.
And you can hear me on the microphone.
It's all recorded, predicting it an hour in advance.
But I didn't predict it, I saw it, it shared it with me. Mm, wow.
That's so fascinating.
It's like the Fatima prophecy, but compressed and at a UFO conference.
But you know what I did? What?
I'm at a UFO conference and they're, you know, some of them's got tinfoil hats
on and they have all these Galactic Federation, well, I,
[0:56:30] Jesse Michels:
yeah,
[0:56:32] Chris Bledsoe:
it doesn't compute with me, right?
So I basically held a little church at the most liberal thing, not church, but I
said, look, we're just gonna say a little prayer here. This is how it works.
Listen to me. There is no summoning.
All this thing you hear about summoning these things, that's, if they're having
negative experiences, whoever's doing this, well, that's why.
Because you're open to anything coming. But I always use a little prayer.
And so I just told them, I said, I believe that the Holy Spirit is this
beautiful lady that gave me this information and I'm just gonna ask her, I'm
gonna ask her right now to share her presence with us.
And that's the only thing I said.
What do you think of, cause it seems like you're coming at this from a very
spiritual perspective.
There are rumors that the Legacy UFO Program itself uses protocols to attract
UFOs to come in, sometimes use directed energy weapons against them, get them to
land psionically through what they call psionic assets.
So that would be finding somebody maybe similar, similarly tapped in as you are,
but who's sort of not maybe come about it in the more kind of earnest spiritual
way through life experience that you
[0:57:57] Jesse Michels:
did.
[0:57:57] Chris Bledsoe:
Maybe they just have some ability or maybe they've been given a protocol or
something.
[0:58:03] Jesse Michels:
What
[0:58:03] Chris Bledsoe:
are psionic assets?
[0:58:06] Jesse Michels:
When we look at collecting data, one of the areas that we look to collect data
is through a psionic asset, which is an individual who's trained in remote
viewing, psychic abilities, telekinesis, that type of thing, which is basically
through a number of different protocols can transition into a place where they
are highly sensitive to their environment from the point of view of
consciousness, through a consciousness field.
[0:58:37] Chris Bledsoe:
How do you feel about that?
Attracting crafts to come down, trying to derive material from these crafts or
get downloads from them?
uh but for like defense you know kind of military industrial complex purposes
well i've been uh you know i work in and around a lot of those people and i've
had a lot of proposals that uh and you wouldn't believe um even proposals if i
could get it to come down could they shoot at it i'm like absolutely not yeah
that's not going to happen with me you want to study it what i what i see is um
is wanting to communicate with us um you hear about all that but i've not seen
any of it i haven't seen the results so there's a lot of talk out there but not
a lot of data to show right where i show the data i take a thousand people out
or 500 out and we get things that appear to have wings orange glowing beings as
many as 20 at the time fly 25 feet over our head appear out of thin air poop
come right over us glowing and um so it's very spiritual and sacred to me and i
would never um but as far as you know i heard some of the things on asia
disclosure and they were talking about negative parts of it um orbs being
negative um i've never experienced that ever in my whole 19 years of doing it in
fact you talked about the book of acts when um saul was on the road to damascus
what was it that appeared and blinded him what was it it was an orb whoa flashed
him said it flashed around him blinded him it was a ball of light same thing and
so you know it's all in your thought process if you grounded with that
humbleness and earnesty and you love then you're going to get that but if you
put something out i mean if we want aliens right we create this in our brain if
we want aliens with red guns if you get enough of the population to think on
that that's probably what will manifest what do you think the orbs are it's this
sort of perennial question because i think a lot of people have these
experiences i think a lot you know they they'll meditate they'll be deep in
prayer and they'll see something come i i have an experience like that where i
was doing holotropic breath work with a friend in silver lake california silver
lake california and we saw two metallic orbs show up and it doesn't feel
coincidental that like you know for him i think it was his first time doing
holotropic breath work and right you know you're supposed that's supposed to get
you into a state where your brain i think endogenously releases dmt and you're
right you're in this kind of heightened spiritual state um what do i think it is
what do you think they are well um i'm very careful to try not to label because
it's all speculation you know you ask the question what do you think well i'm
guessing right all of us are sure and nobody's experienced that i don't think
any more than i have i see it just about every day of my life and it comes in my
house orbs appearing in my room over my chairs and flying through the house and
stuff so you think you experience it more than anybody in the world i haven't
seen anybody with the data i have and show me the data and then we you know what
i'm seeing but people are seeing it now and i predicted that in my book you'll
read where i wrote about a certain incident that was going to happen in the
future which was when iran and israel began to exchange missiles at one another
at that point is when these balls of light these orbs were going to start
appearing and revealing themselves to the world i wrote about that and that was
something i've talked about for 10 12 years and then look last november these
drones supposedly drones that show up those aren't drones they're orbs coming
out of the sea appearing and they're saying stop they de-escalated and they kind
of settled they started putting f-35s in poland all of a sudden now there's orbs
all over europe so what do you think the orbs are based on uh the patterns that
i've seen i'm saying i'm guessing right but um 19 years of uh research and
prayer simple prayer that mindset don't have to say it verbally just think it um
lends me to believe it's something uh connected to our thoughts very caring
loving um and our beings i can share a video with you of an orb with a lady
standing beside me and another lady i go on each side this one has cancer stage
four kidney cancer jesus and she's missing one kidney already year and a half
later it metastasizes in her other kidney she calls me so she's worried about
her the chemo is not working so she had a very um poor chance of survival so she
calls me and comes to my house this was in 2015 i guess and uh 2013 maybe
michigan what fringe test she and she brings her girlfriends like five of them
so all of those myself a wife and some of my children and three native americans
they're outside there they just happen to show up at the same time friends of
mine and so i got them to kind of do a song that they do for healing for her all
of a sudden in the video you'll see an orb appear it flashes and out of that
comes a tall glowing figure about six to seven feet tall and then it just kind
of moves over out of the camera right in front of this lady and then she goes to
get her scan on monday and has no more cancer what yeah and i have it on video
so i would love to see that video
[1:05:28] Jesse Michels:
i'll

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:05:28] Chris Bledsoe:
share it in a little bit with you that would be amazing that's amazing so 19
years i have more data about this and more uh than most people can imagine would
she ever go on record and talk about this yeah probably
[1:05:41] UNKNOWN:
wow
[1:05:42] Chris Bledsoe:
i'd love to speak with her
[1:05:43] Jesse Michels:
yeah
[1:05:44] Chris Bledsoe:
this is so it's so amazing so this is why i always lend to the spiritual side um
uh you know i believe that if there's what is an angel it's a messenger i don't
know what it is i know that it is to me it's uh And it could be just a fractal
of consciousness itself, which that word means God.
And it comes back to the creation or the creator, that mind.
So maybe these lights are just fractals of that, but I don't know.
[1:06:21] Jesse Michels:
Do
[1:06:21] Chris Bledsoe:
you believe Tim Taylor is a time traveler?
Well, I'm guessing, you know, people say that, but it's possible.
It's very possible.
We were talking right before we were rolling about intersection points, points
where maybe you can hop between timelines
[1:06:40] Jesse Michels:
or something.
[1:06:41] Chris Bledsoe:
What does that mean to you?
Well, you know, it's just hard to wrap your head around.
There's no words for that. The vocabulary for all this is just like very small.
But yeah, I'll have to think on that one, what it means.
[1:07:02] Jesse Michels:
I
[1:07:02] Chris Bledsoe:
was having a dream the other.
Night about that, about timelines changing, shifting.
And it was such a weird dream, but it was like, you know, it's like there's
stories.
This is really random, but like Bill Murray, the actor, he'll walk around New
York City and he'll like take a French fry from somebody, eat it, you know, in
their restaurant or whatever.
And, you know, it was just like literally like off the street.
And then they'll look at him.
They'll be like, that's Bill Murray, like taking my fry
[1:07:29] Jesse Michels:
or whatever.
[1:07:30] Chris Bledsoe:
And then he'll look at them and he'll go, no one will ever believe you.
And that's what a lot of the phenomenon feels like.
[1:07:37] Jesse Michels:
It feels
[1:07:37] Chris Bledsoe:
like self-concealing, you know,
[1:07:39] Jesse Michels:
it's
[1:07:40] Chris Bledsoe:
like the perfect, I'm sure the perfect amount of the video that you described
was cut off where open-minded people will believe it.
And then some hyper skeptic will not.
And there's it's it's like there is always some little stigma left on the
evidence that you do have that is fully debunkable. But it's. It's always
[1:08:04] Jesse Michels:
like this. Like a phenomenon. That's the phenomenon. It is. It's messing. And
[1:08:09] Chris Bledsoe:
it's designed is doing that because there are three kinds of people. Hmm.
Now, I've talked about this many times. There are three types. Yes.
Probably more. OK. But there are people that can see. Right. They can see this.
There are people that I can teach to see.
[1:08:27] Jesse Michels:
Hmm.
[1:08:27] Chris Bledsoe:
And there are people that can never say. Oh, damn.
They'll never see it because they're skeptical.
And when you're skeptical about this, you will never be in the club
[1:08:38] Jesse Michels:
ever.
[1:08:38] Chris Bledsoe:
It will not let you in because it doesn't want to mess with your free will.
But skepticism is also good.
[1:08:45] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[1:08:45] Chris Bledsoe:
But some skeptics can come seers. Right. Sure.
But there are some that can never.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:08:52] Jesse Michels:
Their
[1:08:53] Chris Bledsoe:
brains are wired, you know, to where it's a block.
You do need some filtering mechanism. You need some something in your brain.
You have to. That feels wrong or false. What's the phrase?
You know, your mind can be so open, your brain can fall out.
[1:09:11] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[1:09:12] Chris Bledsoe:
So how do you view that?
Because discernment seems like an important, you know, part of wading your way
through this topic. 20 years of it. 19 years of me when it first happened.
All I know is that I was afraid when I was looking at it in the broad daylight.
It came out of the sky in daytime. It wasn't.
It wasn't a dream and it wasn't at night. It was in the broad daylight.
And they came and they took me.
So that program to me in a way there was never doubting, ever
[1:09:44] Jesse Michels:
doubting.
[1:09:45] Chris Bledsoe:
Describe this whole experience.
So you said broad daylight and they came and took you. Who's they?
Well, they, whoever they are.
[1:09:54] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[1:09:55] Chris Bledsoe:
And this is in my book, UFO of God, by the way.
[1:09:59] Jesse Michels:
Check it out.
[1:10:00] Chris Bledsoe:
I haven't plugged it
[1:10:01] Jesse Michels:
yet.
[1:10:02] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah.
[1:10:03] UNKNOWN:
Yeah.
[1:10:04] Chris Bledsoe:
It was 19 years ago on January the 8th of 2007, will be 19 years.
I was down and out and lost everything, lost my home, my income.
I had too many houses on the market.
I was building 100 homes a year and had been for 19, 20 years.
And the World Trade Center thing happened and then the housing bubble bust.
And so I found myself in a place.
So where I was living in a million dollar home on the golf course, and now I'm
in a mobile home with no income and I'm having to apply for free lunch for my
kids. That's how bad it got.
And so I'm crying out to God, walking along, I had gone fishing at the river
with my son and three other guys and they wanted to fish.
And so I walked away, they were sitting on the bank of the Cape River River.
And I walked up the way we came in, we were down in the bottom, you know, you
cross a big cornfield and then you go down in the river bottom.
So that about a quarter mile down in the bottom is where they were sitting on
the bank.
And I told them, I'm going to walk up to the field and look for deer or
whatever, just wildlife.
Not telling them how depressed I was and where I was, I mean, I was struggling
bad, sick with Crohn's disease. Yeah. And I had it 18 years suffering with it.
And anyhow, I walk up to that field and it was just about 10 after five when I
started up that way. It took about five minutes to walk, maybe eight.
And when I got to the top of that hill, there they were, two of these big balls
of fire, like flaming 40 foot round, red, orange, glowing balls of fire.
And the fire is going around.
And these little tips were shooting off of it, flames.
And there were two of them side by side, very low down, probably a couple of
hundred feet above the trees and about 300 yards away.
And I'm at the back of the field and they're up at the road, the highway, you
know, that's where they were.
And I'm sitting there looking at them, scared to death.
First I was mesmerized, like what in the world? I'm a commercial pilot.
Still have my tickets. I'm a military pilot. I'm a military pilot.
And so I knew right away what we were looking at wasn't anything Fort Bragg or
any military anybody had. And so the chill came over me.
It's like, oh, my God, what am I looking at?
So this is my mind went from amazement to fear suddenly.
And then I guess five, 10 minutes sitting there watching it, I got so afraid I
wanted to run.
So I turned my body and pointed down the hill to go run down to where my son
was. And I'm trying to get up. I'm trying to get up.
My son was on the bank of the river, and I had to look back one more time.
So I turned to look back before I went to run, and when I did, the third one, a
third one above me was invisible. It was not visible.
It just appeared and shot right straight down in front of me.
5.15, 5.30 in the evening in January. It's not dark.
Four hours later, I come walking back to the river where they were, and my son
was missing. He wasn't there. He had gotten lost looking for me on foot.
I couldn't compute any of that.
How I had been gone for 20 minutes is all I could think, and they were fussing
at me. Where have you been? We've been looking at you all night.
It took me a long time to recognize.
I couldn't reconcile that, and then my Crohn's was gone.
I had no more sickness, and if anybody has Crohn's, knows how bad that is.
It's the worst thing. You're in the restroom 10 times a day.
I was at 20 times a day at that point in my life.
So I'm suffering with sickness and suffering mentally and depressed and finding
all of it. I'm at the very bottom crying out, Lord, help me. What do
[1:14:33] Jesse Michels:
I do? You're
[1:14:33] Chris Bledsoe:
living in a relatively small town.
A small town in North Carolina where you were very successful and known by all
[1:14:41] Jesse Michels:
your
[1:14:42] Chris Bledsoe:
community members, and you were at the depths of despair and, I'm sure, feeling
like a pariah or something among your community. Oh, yeah.
I came back excited to tell it, and that's when basically the next five years of
darkness I talk about in my book started. The pitchforks came out.
The holy water came out, and the social services came to my house trying to
remove me from the house.
But real quick, so you said that you thought it was 20 minutes had gone by.
[1:15:19] Jesse Michels:
It
[1:15:20] Chris Bledsoe:
was four hours. It was four hours,
[1:15:22] Jesse Michels:
and do
[1:15:22] Chris Bledsoe:
you remember what you had experienced? Did you recover the memory?
I recovered quite a bit of them.
[1:15:27] Jesse Michels:
How did you
[1:15:28] Chris Bledsoe:
recover them? A time, and through hypnosis and a doctor from Harvard helping me.
You got to wonder, is it all real? But I can tell you, they talk telepathically.
[1:15:41] Jesse Michels:
Who's the doctor from Harvard?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:15:43] Chris Bledsoe:
Dr. Michael O'Connell
[1:15:45] Jesse Michels:
was his
[1:15:45] Chris Bledsoe:
name. And has he done this with other experiences? Yeah.
He was trained by John Mack. That's amazing. Yeah.
I didn't know there was a doctor at Harvard currently who was trained by, so
John Mack was the head of the Harvard psychiatry department who saw a lot of
experiencers, and originally he got into it because he was interested in missing
time. Right.
It's like all these people are coming with missing time, and then he had been
childhood friends, synchronistically, with Bud Hopkins, who was very interested
in experiencers, abductees.
So he has an air at Harvard, John Mack, does Michael O'Connell.
Well, he's dead now. He died. Oh, that's unfortunate.
I was literally going to be like, I want to interview him. Yeah.
He was a lovely guy. I mean, we bonded really close until he died.
He lived in South Carolina, so I lived an hour and a half from him, so we
visited a lot. Wow.
I think another thing for people to understand, if they are skeptical of
something coming out in a hypnotic regression, these experiences are so
traumatic. They're so foreign to you when they happen.
If you look at any other extremely traumatizing experience, just in the world, a
woman who's or somebody experiences child abuse or something extremely serious
that just shatters your whole being, you will repress that memory, and it will
often have, you know, you'll have fragments of it, you'll have shards of it, but
it'll be like broken glass, and you'll need techniques like this at times to
recover those memories.
So this guy, Michael O'Connell, works with you, and what do you end up
recovering? Well, what he did, I'll give you a short on what he did.
He came and he started.
Just dialogue, talking, and told me that he knew from his studies that they can
tend to pack a lot of information in your mind, and it's locked away in there,
and that if you were to remember it all at one time, it'd probably drive you
crazy.
So he, I can tell you, I had severe headaches if I tried to think past that
missing person. I would pass out. I did it over and over.
When they would question me, I'd get to a point and I couldn't think anymore,
and the headaches would come so bad. I would pass out.
You know, there's a really great book by, my mind's just going to all these
crazy places, but there's a book called Healing Back Pain by Paul Sarno.
It's this amazing book that healed a lot of people's backs psychosomatically,
because it talks about chronic pain as being adaptive from a psychological point
of view. Psychosomatic perspective.
And so maybe even this was the case with your Crohn's disease that you were
facing, where it is more adaptive to feel physical pain at times than to process
emotional pain.
And so it would make sense that actually physical pain would be the blocker for
something that was maybe more emotionally painful or transformative
[1:18:59] Jesse Michels:
or something.
[1:19:00] Chris Bledsoe:
Makes sense. Yeah.
So, so we started working together and he would tell me, we're going to, we're
going to program you to where that all this information comes out little at a
time, not too much, but you'll remember it all. That's what he said.
Immediately when he did work with me, within days, I started having these
nightmares and dreaming and speaking in my sleep and talking to my wife and kids
were videoing me into bed.
They'd hear me, you know, saying all kinds of crazy things.
About my experience and, but what, what it was like, Jesse, it was like a
virtual tour.
In other words, they took me, the first thing I remembered was seeing Egypt.
Why? Over the pyramids, looking over the pyramids and seeing the Sphinx.
That's all I remember that and seeing this temple, Hathor's temple and all the
animals and the birds.
It was just like this video that was playing in my brain about.
So I, I, you know, I studied everything I could study about that.
I went to, to scholars like Dr.
Gilbert and learn from Robert, all kinds of sacred geometry.
And I didn't know you learned from Robert Gilbert. Yeah.
He lived in Nashville, right close to me. So famous Rosicrucian
[1:20:30] Jesse Michels:
scholar.
[1:20:31] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. Interesting. Love the guy. Wow.
[1:20:34] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[1:20:34] Chris Bledsoe:
He was very sad. He, uh,
[1:20:36] Jesse Michels:
was I
[1:20:37] Chris Bledsoe:
think a nuclear chemist and he just passed away. He passed
[1:20:40] Jesse Michels:
away from cancer very recently, like
[1:20:42] Chris Bledsoe:
this year, I believe.
This year, but a world of knowledge and he helped me a lot, um, understanding
the symbols I saw about Egypt. And then, you know, 2019 comes along.
I write about this in my book.
Um, I'm sick with rheumatoid arthritis now, and I'm been on chemotherapy for
like six, seven years. I'm down to 150 some pounds.
I was walking on a cane and now I'm migrating to a wheelchair.
That's where I was in 2019. Diana and Tim were in the Vatican archives in 2017.
And I was supposed to go with them, but it couldn't, I was sick and they were,
oh, you were supposed to go on that trip. Well, that could have been arranged.
Yeah. It was all about me.
The, the whole thing, when they went there, they had a ceremony in the Vatican.
It was supposed to be a ceremony for you. Yeah. They had a ceremony.
They put my picture in the picture of the Pope on the outside of the archives.
And then they placed my photo between the books of Galileo and Copernicus.
Really? Yeah. To be there forever. No way. Yeah, sure did.
Do you have, you have photos of this? I
[1:21:56] UNKNOWN:
did.
[1:21:56] Chris Bledsoe:
Could you send that? Wow. This
[1:22:00] Jesse Michels:
is amazing. Yeah.
[1:22:00] Chris Bledsoe:
So, so, and who was, was Tim Taylor prompting them to do this ceremony or.
I think Diana's connection to the.
The Vatican and this, the lady I speak about, you know, I, here, I come in 20,
um, 12 having an experience with this lady, this beautiful, glowing lady that,
um, boy, that was something too, because that was at the end of five years and I
was fighting the government, the social services for my sanity. Yeah. Um.
But real quick. So, cause you were describing your first experience that. Right.
You know, O'Connell helped you get. Get out.
And so you're, you're around the pyramids.
You've, you see, you see the sacred geometry, which, you know, uh, Dr.
Uh, uh, Robert Gilbert helps you kind of decode. Right. Did you decode anything?
Did you, did you notice any sort of messaging? Yeah, I did.
I started seeing likeness and their, the, the way they portray their deities is,
um, and the whole matrix of the thing, you know, it's like when Jesus was born,
it said, uh, an angel came and said, go to Egypt. Right.
Well, we don't realize that Egypt was controlled by Greece for 500 years before
that. Right. So perfect fit for him to go there and to grow up there.
And when you start seeing the similarities between the two, there's pretty much
the same thing. And,
[1:23:32] Jesse Michels:
and there's stories between,
[1:23:34] Chris Bledsoe:
yeah, between the Trinity, Jesus and the Trinity. And then.
Ra and Horus and the whole
[1:23:42] Jesse Michels:
thing,
[1:23:42] Chris Bledsoe:
they have a triad, triad there. Right.
But their, their deities are, um, portrayed as animals, birds, forces of nature.
This is what Dr. Gilbert spoke about.
Uh, it's all about everything, nature and humanity.
And so, and then you read the story of Ezekiel and the wheel within the wheel,
right? He walks. Between two of the cherubim.
It says, and he walked between them and there he met an angel. Right.
And what was it had places of animals and only one part human.
So it's, it's, it's not like grandma with wings and a beautiful robe, right?
It's just, these things are creatures and they're, it's always, um, did you see
these creatures? No, I only, I've studied them. Okay. All right. I saw.
The creatures. Yeah. I drew them.
[1:24:42] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[1:24:42] Chris Bledsoe:
When they were, um, little glowing beings about this tall, but those seem more
of the variety of the extraterrestrials or aliens people kind of experience.
[1:24:52] Jesse Michels:
Well, they
[1:24:52] Chris Bledsoe:
say that until you read Daniel chapter 10, when it talks about an angel that he
saw. And when I described this little being, I said, he looked like glass.
He was shot so shiny. His whole body was glowing.
Like he had a suit on that was gleaming like glass. You see this. Alien in the.
In the craft

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:25:11] Jesse Michels:
or.
[1:25:11] Chris Bledsoe:
I saw it standing from me to you, from me.
And this was in the, on the, in like the woods. Yeah.
[1:25:17] Jesse Michels:
Near your house. Yeah.
[1:25:18] Chris Bledsoe:
And I, I wrote about this and, um. And he had a little triangle.
[1:25:23] Jesse Michels:
Triangle on his chest. Yeah.
[1:25:24] Chris Bledsoe:
Funny. There's a triangle right there, right? Oh, there you go.
I was thinking that when you
[1:25:28] Jesse Michels:
were
[1:25:28] Chris Bledsoe:
like, look at my little pendant.
I was like, well, was that an homage to the triangle from the alien being?
That was from NASA. And two. I have multiple.
I have multiple videos and, and if we go sky watching at some point, you'll see
the phenomena will always try to line up in a triangle or in threes.
Interesting. So
[1:25:51] Jesse Michels:
it's like a, maybe the trinity or something.
[1:25:52] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. It's telling us something, right? What is that? I, I don't know.
I'm, it's all speculation. I'm learning. What else did Robert Gilbert tell you?
Because he did seem like a person who was very tapped into.
[1:26:04] Jesse Michels:
Oh
[1:26:05] Chris Bledsoe:
yeah. Kind of deeper esoteric truths. Yeah. A lot. I learned a lot from him.
That. That helped me understand that this world is so far more complex.
Uh, for example, um, he described pendulums.
If you go to Egypt and you dig in the soil there, the most artifacts that they
find under the ground in Egypt are pendulums. Is that true? Yeah.
That's the most frequent artifact.
[1:26:31] Jesse Michels:
That's the most
[1:26:32] Chris Bledsoe:
frequent. They find the millions of them.
And so he explained to me what they knew and how the, the people that set
Washington up, they did the same thing. Why they have an obelisk in Washington.
Why they have one in central park.
Why is there one in France and in England they have, and they went to Egypt and
got those things and brought them back and stood those stones up.
Well, you know, uh, if you look at, uh, Charles Launfant, you have all this kind
of free Masonic symbolism around DC, and that is definitely derived from ancient
Egypt. In fact, I've been inside of this like free Masonic temple in DC.
And, and by the way, I'm not a free Mason
[1:27:19] Jesse Michels:
and
[1:27:19] Chris Bledsoe:
I wouldn't be saying this
[1:27:20] Jesse Michels:
if it was
[1:27:20] Chris Bledsoe:
obviously.
Um, but like, it's, it's just, you might as well be in like an Egyptian temple
or something.
[1:27:26] Jesse Michels:
It's
[1:27:26] Chris Bledsoe:
all Egyptian symbology.
And so you think there's like a link between, I think there's, it's a big
mystery, but there's a link some, yeah, some way or another. Wow. Yeah.
So interesting.
And then the other connection for you with ancient Egypt is, so you're around
the pyramids and you see these symbols, but, and then you obviously encounter
these beings, but later you encounter the lady. Right.
And she describes herself as Hathor. Is that right? Well, that was one name.
She is, she, she said she had many names and, um, she had been called many
things throughout the world. In other words, Diana, Demeter, Isis, Hathor, Hera.
Um, the Virgin Mary, everything.
[1:28:17] Jesse Michels:
She's
[1:28:17] Chris Bledsoe:
had many names throughout history and by every culture.
And the way she explained it to me helped me understand a religion in a
different way, how people conceive, you know, like the, the, the Taoist or the,
the Muslims or the, the Catholics or whoever, uh, only imagine God in their
minds. We all do.
We imagine that and it turns into an ugly thing because religions tend to think
they have the skivvy on God.
And therefore we going to go to war with you because you don't believe like us.
That's, that's the problem that has to stop.
This is the message she told me that she had many names throughout history and
that God is God and we don't know what we think we know, and we need to set
back.
And reanalyze and, you know, be good children and, or we're going off the cliff
and that's kind of the thing she told me.
And she told me about the missiles that was in 2012, but, um, it was so much
there, I came out of the, in 2012 telling it like right away, what that, what
that she explained to me. And you received a prophecy about 2026 as well, right?
Yeah.
[1:29:45] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[1:29:46] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. And what was that? Well, she said, um, and I had no idea what it meant.
Still don't other than she said that when the star of Regulus, which is a blue
star, when it appears red on the horizon at the dawn, uh, before the sun comes
up and the gaze of the Spanx, in other words, I saw it in a vision, the whole
thing to see the Spanx facing east. And this thing's just. Cresting the top.
She said, when that happens, that will, uh, be a sign that ushers in a new
knowledge for humanity.
So does that mean the return of Jesus or the return of, uh, Christ
consciousness? It could, and I, uh, think that's possible.
Uh, but it's, it's, it marks a sign.
She said to where the, the, the darkness would be exposed and the truth would be
revealed. Mm-hmm
[1:30:53] Jesse Michels:
so I

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:30:53] Chris Bledsoe:
think we're gonna learn something over the next couple of years that, you know,
and this was 12 years ago. I said this 13 years ago, 2012. Yeah. Right.
And how, when these missiles started flying and the orb started appearing, that
got a lot of attention on me real quick. Yeah. I'm it's funny.
I'm caught between
[1:31:13] Jesse Michels:
two
[1:31:13] Chris Bledsoe:
minds.
One is, you know, I think even the book of Matthew, it's something like nobody
knows today other than God. Right.
[1:31:21] Jesse Michels:
Uh,
[1:31:22] Chris Bledsoe:
paraphrasing, but yeah, nobody knows the day.
Um, and then on the other hand, it does feel like just this gestalt sense of
like things are getting weirder. Yeah. Dark truths are being revealed ongoing.
Yeah. It feels like it's already started. Um,
[1:31:38] Jesse Michels:
and
[1:31:38] Chris Bledsoe:
it feels like we're on the verge of, uh, uh, some sort of paradigm shift.
Yeah, we are definitely. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with that a hundred.
And I, I think everybody sees something coming and. Uh, uh.
A new knowledge just coming and a new shift that, um, things that I know that,
um, imagine a world without oil. Hmm.
So you think we're going to have free energy at some point soon or something?
Imagine the world without rockets. Right.
So that kind of knowledge alone would change everything. Right. All of humanity.
And so that's in our future.
Well, that was Thomas Townsend Brown's vision, you know, a world.
Beyond rockets that, you know, he had this model of electrogravitics, which
connected electromagnetism and gravity, which, you know, in kind of our standard
physics is, you know, we don't have a link between those two things. Right.
And, uh, if you were to get a link, if the input was pure electromagnetism or,
you know, electrical and the output was some sort of gravity, gravitational
perturbation, um, that, that, that would be paradigm shifting.
[1:32:49] Jesse Michels:
Exactly. I mean, you'd
[1:32:50] Chris Bledsoe:
get well beyond what SpaceX is, which. Is extremely inefficient.
You know, most of, I believe the, the Starship, their latest rocket is, I think
it's 5,000 metric tons and a, an extremely high percentage of that.
I mean, the payload capacity of it is like 150 tons.
So that ratio alone, it's all fuel. The whole thing is fuel.
That's not efficient. That's not alien interstellar space travel.
It doesn't make sense. Well, I imagine a day that we won't need those things.
Hmm. In fact, they probably already. Would have had that. Do you think they did?
I think so. Really? I think it's possible. So why not?
Cause why not let it out then? Because it, it would change everything.
It could, it could create a, it's something that has to be given slowly.
It's too disruptive. Too disruptive. Yeah. I
[1:33:44] Jesse Michels:
imagine. It would
[1:33:44] Chris Bledsoe:
definitely be destabilizing for institutions. Exactly.
You know, if you had say right now we're paying, I'm just gonna throw fake
numbers out there, but. 50.
$15, you know, per kilowatt hour for electricity or whatever.
If that reduced to 10 cents per kilowatt hour, a whole lot of institutions would
kind of crumble. Corporations
[1:34:07] Jesse Michels:
would
[1:34:07] Chris Bledsoe:
experience a lot of like for the people who are like there, it wouldn't, you
know, destabilize things. I think that's crazy. I think it would.
[1:34:14] Jesse Michels:
I think it'd be
[1:34:14] Chris Bledsoe:
very positive.
[1:34:15] Jesse Michels:
Well, it would
[1:34:16] Chris Bledsoe:
be in the end, but imagine the oil tankers, the thousands of them are refineries
and all the jobs that's involved. With it. So. Sure.
[1:34:25] Jesse Michels:
Yeah. But
[1:34:25] Chris Bledsoe:
then the, imagine the abundance on the other side. Yeah.
All of those people, their quality of life of life would be dramatically.
Different.
[1:34:33] Jesse Michels:
You know,
[1:34:33] Chris Bledsoe:
better. Yeah. So, so is that the new knowledge?
I don't know, but I think that is a, is a, there's a whole lot of things that
are going to come forward that have been hidden from us.
And the main thing is the truth that we're not alone. Yeah.
I mean that, well, that's clear to me, you know?
I think that's, that's definitely a thing.
And so I believe next year we'll be closer to that than
[1:35:02] Jesse Michels:
ever. Yeah.
[1:35:03] Chris Bledsoe:
And the word apocalypse, by the way, you know what that means? Yeah. Unveiling.
Yeah. To reveal a secret. To reveal the secret. Yeah. Yeah. That's all.
And people think when you hear that, and if you look on Google, it says the
ultimate destruction, the end, you know, it's lying to us.
That's not what the word means at all.
It means to reveal that which has been hidden. And it's, it's the veil thinning.
And I think for some people that will be very good and for other people will be
very bad. It
[1:35:31] Jesse Michels:
depends on
[1:35:32] Chris Bledsoe:
your orientation to it. Right.
And I think it does have this connotation of, you know, the Beezlebub coming
down and breathing fire onto

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:35:41] Jesse Michels:
everybody,
[1:35:41] Chris Bledsoe:
sorting people and whatever.
But like, I think if you were oriented in a, in a good way, spiritually, you
know, I don't think it'll necessarily be bad for you.
I also don't even, you know, we're talking about it.
Like it's one, you know, crazy event with these like divine beings.
Maybe it's like a slow moving.
[1:36:01] Jesse Michels:
That's
[1:36:01] Chris Bledsoe:
exactly the way I see it. It's not like snap your fingers and something.
We're not going to wake up on Easter or whenever that time happens. Yeah.
I'm torn by the way, because for eight years I wrote and talked about this
alignment being in September or somewhere in the fall.
Cause that was the date given to me by some people into astrology.
And then they come back right when I go to write my book and say, oh, we made a
mistake. It said Easter.
And I thought, well, that sounds plausible because the lady's always coming
around Easter. I have this and saying experiences every year at Easter.
Are you still having them? Yeah. That's amazing. So you
[1:36:43] Jesse Michels:
still speak every
[1:36:44] Chris Bledsoe:
year and you think it's the same, the Virgin Mary, Hathor, Demeter, you think
all of these, I think it's the Sophia, the wisdom, the Holy Spirit.
It would be kind of the Gnostic version or something. Yeah. Yeah.
That's who I think this being is.
It was a spirit and it was definitely holy in her presence.
And so, and she physically impacted me because the wind blew me backwards to the
ground. It was such a blast of wind that blew me down.
And I started researching that. And the word spirit is the wind.
And the word Holy Spirit is the breath of God.
But it was the wind that affected me and the power from it.
This cow came over me, but the wind pushed me back. What does she look like?
Looked like the most beautiful 35, 40-year-old woman you've ever seen.
Just glowing and typical Virgin Mary apparition type thing.
And, you know, this thing, this spirit appears in every country.
It appeared to the Native Americans in the Wild West back, you know, they called
her the white buffalo calf lady.
The Egyptians called her Hathor and earlier before met.
And the birth mother, the creator in Proverbs in the Bible, chapter 8 and 9
talks about wisdom. It's the name of the chapters.
And it talks about, and she was created before the earth was created, before the
beginning. And she was created at the end of time. Wow. So who is she?
I don't know. But that's my thought.
What was the feeling that came over you when you saw her, when you see her
regularly?
It's, when I first saw her, it was very impactful because the cow ran me over.
So I had this extreme fright to start with.
And then I land on my back and I roll over to get up and run.
And there's this beautiful woman. So I went from extreme fear.
Fear to, oh my God, what is this in front of me?
Is the cow running you over part of the whole thing?
That was part of the, her coming at me.
She came at me at night out of the darkness as a wind, the wind hit me.
And as I'm going backwards to the ground, I see a translucent cow run over top
of me
[1:39:18] Jesse Michels:
and I could
[1:39:19] Chris Bledsoe:
see stars up through the thing. I'm like, oh my God.
And I, and I was frightened so bad.
I landed on my back and I turned to get up and run.
And there's this woman about.
I'm here to that camera, three feet off the ground hovering.
And she looked at me and she said, you know why I'm here.
And I'll tell you why she said that because five years had gone by 2007 to 2012.
And I had been beaten down and broken by the community.
My children were falling apart.
The schools and the teachers were calling them to the side. Is your dad crazy?
We hear about all this. Are you all right?
Somebody from there called social services on me and I had to fight to be at
home with my children. It was that bad.
So five years of that, I walked out on Easter, Saturday night, Easter of 2012,
Sunday morning's Easter, right?
And I shouted to this guy, thank you for saving me.
Thank you for healing me, but you've ruined my life.
Now my children are affected and not, and I have caused them great harm.
And, and I'll never speak about this again.
Even though I had the desire, they put this in me, like the famous movie, Close
Encounters, where you see, he's making a mashed potato mountain on his, in dirt,
and he's throwing it in the wind and bushes and he's creating devil's sour,
right? He didn't know what it was, but it was in his head.
So I was that guy I had to tell everybody.
And the more I told it, the more trouble I got myself into.
And what you're referencing with your father.
His family is junior, your son who had gone looking for you also saw beings, was
really shocked at what he experienced.
It was the community that caused him to want to leave home. Really? Yeah. Yeah.
He was 17 years old and my right hand, it was with me everywhere I went and we
come home telling the world about it.
And now the whole community has come on us. And so five years into it.
I'm out telling the heavens, I quit. I'll never talk about it again.
And then she appears and says, you know why I'm here. This is your burden.
You must bear. You have to tell what you know.
And if you do, I will allow you to video record and fill my presence and share
it with others. The lady said that. She told me that. And are you going to?
Well, let me tell you from 2007 to 2012, I had zero data.
I was out every night with a camera trying to get pictures to save myself from
the community, right? The more I tried, the less it would let me film it.
It'd be hovering in the trees behind my house.
I pull the camera out and it would vanish every time. So I was angry about that.
I'm trying to prove myself sane.
And my child is now left home because the community has just been tough. So.
Um, she's like, you're not going to quit. I'm going to help you.
So from that point forward, I started being able to film it and sharing it with
anybody.
And I've amassed terabytes and terabytes of data, video, photo, audio, and, um,
never a picture until 2012 when she came.
Why do you think these guys from NASA are showing up at your door?
We mentioned Tim Taylor earlier. He's a NASA mission controller.
Hal Pauvenmeier also showed up originally.
And I think you, Ryan, your son mentioned that kind of at the end of his life,
you realized that he was both CIA
[1:43:11] Jesse Michels:
and NASA.
[1:43:12] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. And so what do you think their interest in all of this is?
Um, and there are a lot more NASA guys. That was just two of them. Really?
In fact, I had dinner with Hal's wife this weekend.
She came from Florida to, uh, Chris Jr's wedding. Oh. Oh, wow. Yeah.
We love them.
And, uh, but there are a lot of other NASA guys that I'm currently talking with.
Several. One tells me wherever I go, but they're all interested.
They tail you wherever you go. They're there with me. Really? Yeah.
Usually traveling with me. Somebody associated with that. Yeah.
What do you think they want? They all want to study it.
They want to know, and they observe it with me.
They, I take them out and we, you know, we do a lot of work. Are
[1:43:59] Jesse Michels:
they
[1:43:59] Chris Bledsoe:
with you in Austin, Texas?
Well, nobody wanted to be, I only have one night and my wife's friend traveled
with me cause she was at our house
[1:44:08] Jesse Michels:
and
[1:44:08] Chris Bledsoe:
her kids are right down the street. Uh-huh.
But, uh, usually I go nowhere without somebody with me for a reason. Wow. Yeah.
I've had some things that, that, um, caused me to want to have somebody with me
all the time. What happened that caused you to want to not leave?
You don't want to go anywhere unaccompanied.
Um, well, I've been threatened a few times by different ones and, uh, was at the
PSI games this year, PSI games,
[1:44:41] Jesse Michels:
I call
[1:44:42] Chris Bledsoe:
it PSI, PSI games, and, um, came out of a conference speaking and when I walked
out the door, this mad lady comes running up to me and tries to kidnap me. What?
Yeah. Has something with drugs on it.
Tried to get me in a van with no driver, with no tags on it and security had to
come. They had to call the law on her. Yeah. So crazy, crazy people. Yeah.
I, I imagine you attract a lot of nutty people. Big time.
What do you think the Vatican knows about all of this?
If they had a picture of you and they were doing some ceremony about you and you
were supposed to come, what do you think they think of you?
Well, I can share a couple of photos of you for that, but, um, I got three
pictures, several, quite a few.
Paintings that they have in the Vatican that Diana sent me from there and Pope
Francis, uh, she said to tell me that they know that they're angels, that, uh,
they don't mean to harm us, but their energy, if they get excited, can cause
harm to a human.
So just be careful and try to ask it not to get too close to you.
And these three photos or paintings show. Orbs with angels in them.
That's what they told me. Yeah. Because, you know, you have St.
Francis of Assisi who she writes about in 13th century, Mount Laverne in Italy,
brother Leo's right next to him. And he sees this, uh, angel.
But if you look at the original Greek translation, it's a flaming torch.
She thinks it's this UFO experience and that the stigmata he receives these
wounds on his hands are actually electromagnetic damage.
Um, that like, you know, Gary Nolan or somebody studying kind of modern
experiencers interacting with UFOs might just say, oh, that's like an
electromagnetic burn, or you let you see it in close encounter of the third
kind. You see the burn on his face.
[1:46:48] Jesse Michels:
I
[1:46:48] Chris Bledsoe:
got, I got, um, yeah, I got radiation burns, plasma radiation.
That's what NASA told me.
It was the, uh, so you got, you also got plasma radiation burns. No, I didn't.
But I was warned a million times by how Papa Meyer and.
Different ones at NASA kept calling me, honestly, over and over.
Don't let them get too close. Don't get too close to them.
The, how I was telling me that they knew the voltage was like 33 million volts
in one of these things. And if it got near me, it would kill me dead.
So they have like a scientific model of how these angels work at NASA.
They know a lot more than we know than we think they do.
They just don't share it. Right. So who is this like team?
Uh, like between CIA and NASA that knows a lot about angels.
Well, I don't know that, but I know the, the NRO is the ones that have the keys
to this thing. Really? And why do you think that?
Cause they have the keys to all the satellites and all the eyes on the sky.
And they're the ones that every rocket, when it goes up, right.
They observe every aspect of that rocket for reasons for mechanical reasons and.
For a surprise visit
[1:48:06] Jesse Michels:
that
[1:48:07] Chris Bledsoe:
happens pretty much every time they launch one.
Do you think that rockets attract UFOs? That's what I'm saying.
Every time they send one up, it attracts them
[1:48:16] Jesse Michels:
and
[1:48:16] Chris Bledsoe:
they'll come up and look at it. If it has weapons on board.
Does Tim Taylor know Elon Musk? Yeah. Do they work together? Um, for sure. Yeah.
Did Tim ever tell you that?
Well, he mentioned his name, but he didn't say he worked for him, but he
controls all the launches. Controls. All. All
[1:48:35] Jesse Michels:
the
[1:48:35] Chris Bledsoe:
launches. Tim does. He's the launch guy. He's, he's the dragon.
His console is called dragon control. And he controls all of the launches
[1:48:45] Jesse Michels:
out of Cape Canaveral or.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:48:46] Chris Bledsoe:
He's the guy. He's the one. And I'll tell you what he does.
When they fire a rocket up, right.
They have these big ground-based cameras, like on a World War II, um, battleship
where they sit on a gun and they could turn a handle and the gun would go around
and, you know, the. They could control this thing they're sitting on.
Well, they have big binoculars on it like that, and they can get on this thing
and follow this rocket up and they got it to about 50,000 feet.
Then it gets blurry.
So at that point, it's intercepted by a WB 57 run out of Houston by a good
friend of mine, which is national reconnaissance office works with Taylor.
So his crews up there at 50,000 feet and it intercepts the rocket.
So they film it with seven cameras on that thing, where it goes right on up when
it gets up to a hundred thousand feet, then it's intercepted by F one Oh four
starfighter equipped with another seven or eight cameras on that.
And so it trails it right on up until it runs out of sight of, and then the
satellites take it over.
And the only ones that can look at the satellites are these NRO guys.
And Tim walks out of his control into a private room. Yeah.
Where all the screens are. So his eyes are on all that. Fascinating. Yeah.
How did he get into that line of work?
Because if you read launch fever, I don't think he's traditionally credentialed
or trained.
Well, my friend from Houston told me he helped him get that position.
And who's your friend from Houston?
[1:50:27] Jesse Michels:
I can't say.
[1:50:28] Chris Bledsoe:
Okay.
He lives right down the road from here on a big, on a big ranch right out here.
[1:50:33] Jesse Michels:
Well, I'd
[1:50:34] Chris Bledsoe:
love to meet him. Yeah. We
[1:50:37] Jesse Michels:
can figure it out. I'll show
[1:50:38] Chris Bledsoe:
you a picture of him later.
[1:50:39] Jesse Michels:
Okay,
[1:50:40] Chris Bledsoe:
cool. Um, wow. Fascinating.
And, um, cause Tim also works at aerospace corporation,
[1:50:47] Jesse Michels:
right?
[1:50:48] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. And what do you think the link is between NASA and aerospace corporation?
[1:50:53] Jesse Michels:
I
[1:50:53] Chris Bledsoe:
know a lot of those guys are NRO. Okay. Interesting.
And they carry blackberries everywhere. They go. Blackberries. Yeah.
Not iPhones, androids.
[1:51:03] Jesse Michels:
They
[1:51:03] Chris Bledsoe:
have all that, but they have blackberries. They do their business. Hmm.
Do you think he's a time traveler? I think it's entirely possible.
I, you know, honestly, I, I can tell you a story about him. Yeah.
It's in my book. Yeah.
[1:51:20] Jesse Michels:
Um,
[1:51:21] Chris Bledsoe:
I think it made it in, uh, I wrote 140,000 words and we only published 85 and
that was what they recommended the, for the right size of book. Right.
So, but in one of the stories I talk about Tim. Right.
After we came back from Zanesville.
Ohio, he came to my house and, uh, we had this famous tree on my yard that
caught fire. This is a video out on the internet.
You can see Chris Bledsoe burning tree.
Well, we had his tree that just spontaneously combusted in the backyard.
It rained for two days, grounds, wet, everything's wet.
And, uh, my wife and I walk out the back door at nine o'clock and this poof, it
erupted into flames and was shooting 20, 15 feet up. Through the tree.
And, uh, she put it out three times with a hose pipe. It kept reigniting itself.
And, uh, so that got the attention of everybody and Tim wanted to see this tree.
So he's at my house come, I picked him up at the airport.
He goes to my daughter's homecoming game that night.
She was a little homecoming princess in the 10th grade.
Now she's a, has a double masters from NYU. So that's been a long time ago.
Right. We walk up to this.
This tree and having just a good, you know, conversation.
And all of a sudden the one side of the tree is open where it burnt from the
inside, the tree caught fire in the inside and burnt a hole through the side of
the tree.
And when we walked up to it, he walks up and puts his head right up to look up
in the tree.
And all of a sudden this snake comes out of the tree, this silver snake.
And it was perfectly, I never seen anything like it ever. It was silver.
It was a silver automobile, perfect color. He jumps back and he grasps for air.
Oh my God. Just like that. He looks at me and he was short with words.
And he said, uh, he said, you know, my grandmother is full-blooded Choctaw,
Indian, and I went to, to, um, school on a minority grant.
My grandma told me if I ever saw a silver snake, it was part of their, their
history, right? She said it would be a message from God.
And he saw that and told me all about it.
But I watched his reaction and it got the best of him when that snake come out
of that tree. And you saw the snake. I was standing beside him.
[1:53:59] Jesse Michels:
Yeah. What do
[1:54:00] Chris Bledsoe:
you think the message could have been from God?
It was a message from him for him to understand this whole thing was from God
somehow or another. Mm. Mm. And how does one of the most interesting things?
Yeah.
Wonder is if you read American cosmic or talk to Diana Pasolka, it's almost like
they visited the Vatican archives.
He figured out a way in before she had gotten there.
And then they were sort of celebrating him at the Vatican observatory.
Like why would the Vatican observatory know who a random NASA mission controller
is?
[1:54:39] Jesse Michels:
It makes
[1:54:40] Chris Bledsoe:
me think he is not a random NASA mission
[1:54:42] Jesse Michels:
controller.
[1:54:42] Chris Bledsoe:
He's not a random guy
[1:54:44] Jesse Michels:
at
[1:54:44] Chris Bledsoe:
all. He's, um, let's just say. He runs with the biggest. How so?
Do you think he has a connection with the president? Yeah, absolutely.
He briefed, he briefed Obama on me. That's where this come from.
He briefed Obama on you.
It came from him with a dinner napkin from Camp David, Maryland.
And you're sure of that? Positive. And did he tell you that he briefed Obama?
No, he didn't tell me that, but I know that's what it means.
Because of the, the, the, uh, letterhead. Yeah. And where it came from.
Bob McGuire, who is, I think, former Intel and a friend of yours came on the
show. And he said, I, I, that, that cannot be faked. Right.
That definitely came from Camp David. Yeah. It's a napkin and an

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:55:30] Jesse Michels:
envelope with a napkin, partially obscuring the address that's on the envelope.
I knew the address because it was the address of Chris
[1:55:39] Chris Bledsoe:
Bledsoe.
I knew the napkin because it was the presidential seal on a napkin from Camp
David. There's only.
There's only one way you can have that napkin because it's a crime to copy the
presidential seal. There's only one
[1:55:56] Jesse Michels:
person
[1:55:56] Chris Bledsoe:
that can get you to Camp David.
[1:56:00] Jesse Michels:
And the
[1:56:00] Chris Bledsoe:
picture was mailed to him by Tim Taylor. By Tim Taylor.
And the only person at that story can have been told to in that envelope
[1:56:11] Jesse Michels:
was Barack Obama. Oh, my God. The letter.
To me is ironclad proof that Chris's story was taken all the way to Barack Obama
[1:56:25] Chris Bledsoe:
via Tim Taylor. Yes. You might think he was trying to throw you off the trail.
If he said, I briefed the president and was bragging or whatever,
[1:56:32] Jesse Michels:
but he didn't sound it
[1:56:33] Chris Bledsoe:
out. Independent. Right. I found it out.
I didn't know what it meant, but I knew that it, uh, he told me he just returned
from Camp David and it was at Christmas when he
[1:56:41] Jesse Michels:
told you that.
[1:56:43] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. Yeah. And he said, I was at the dinner table with.
The president and handed me that, uh,
[1:56:50] Jesse Michels:
he
[1:56:50] Chris Bledsoe:
said that, yeah. Okay.
So he did tell you that, but he didn't tell me he briefed him, but he did give
me the napkin and the, and this, yeah. And you believe him. Yeah.
Had no reason not to,
[1:57:02] Jesse Michels:
you
[1:57:02] Chris Bledsoe:
know, have you ever caught him in a lie? No, ever. Uh, I wouldn't know.
Not that I can recall.
Everything he said has either come out to be true or you're waiting for
confirmation. Right. Right.
[1:57:14] UNKNOWN:
Wow.
[1:57:15] Chris Bledsoe:
Have you independently verified.
[1:57:17] Jesse Michels:
Some of them. What are you telling me?
[1:57:18] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. A hundred percent.
[1:57:19] Jesse Michels:
Is there
[1:57:20] Chris Bledsoe:
an example of that?
Uh, no, but it's just, you know, it'd be like, it's just so hard to pinpoint any
one thing. Sure.
Or like, I don't know, some of the things about how the NRO or NASA work
together. Have you been able to verify
[1:57:35] Jesse Michels:
it? Yeah,
[1:57:35] Chris Bledsoe:
absolutely. Yeah. Yeah.
Do you think that the big dipper or Ursa major has anything to do with the UFO
phenomenon? You've said that you've seen UFOs come from.
That constellation specifically.
[1:57:51] Jesse Michels:
I

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:57:51] Chris Bledsoe:
have a, yeah, but you know, I've learned since then it, it, that doesn't matter.
It's wherever I look, I can take you out at night and face one certain direction
and only have a hole to look through that direction and it'll come from there.
We can turn in any direction and focus there. And that's where it'll come from.
So do you, do you think the Vatican.
And the president and whoever Tim Taylor, you know, the, the hammer, do you
think they're all coordinating in some way,
[1:58:25] Jesse Michels:
like
[1:58:25] Chris Bledsoe:
maybe this archangel, the Vatican and the president, or what do you think the
connection is there? I don't have a clue. I'm just telling you what I was told.
Right. Yeah.
So, and I've been told a lot of things, but he told me about the movie, the
adjustment Bureau and the story about the hammer.
[1:58:44] Jesse Michels:
Yeah. Have you
[1:58:45] Chris Bledsoe:
ever watched the Netflix show dark by any chance? No. I don't know.
Do you think that you, you mentioned, uh, Tim's grandmother being native
American. So is he a time traveler? I know where he came from, right.
As a young boy, which is, well, he told me the story about his upbringing, his
native American grandma.
And so I'm just answering that question you asked earlier.
Is he a time traveler? I don't know. I just know he told me and shared with me.
Did he say anything else about Thomas Townsend Brown?
Not a lot other than we went there, we went to, uh, into conversation about his,
his, uh, daughter and that he was actively, and I actually have the manuscript
saved on my phone.
He shared with me that he was working with her on, on, on this book, on that
[1:59:45] Jesse Michels:
book,
[1:59:45] Chris Bledsoe:
whatever happened to the book. I don't know, but I know I have the manuscript.
Oh, I would love to read it, whether they were publishing it or ended up
publishing it. I, I don't know if they did or not.
[1:59:58] Jesse Michels:
What
[1:59:58] Chris Bledsoe:
was it going to be about?
About their father, her father and his work and Tim's input confirming it all.
And Tim definitely knew Townsend Brown. Yeah. He knew his daughter.
He caught her when I was there with him. This is crazy. Yeah.
This is so interesting. Yeah. I want to, are you still in touch with Tim?
I haven't spoke to him. He sent word to me a couple of years ago.
I want to speak to him about Townsend Brown. He's a ghost, Tim. Yeah. Yeah.
His, his whole life.
I admire him because his real life is in medical saving children, cares more
about the children and, and the struggles they have and diseases and cancers and
finding cures for that. I, I'm, I'm sort of.
I'm sort of like a part of me is like hesitant to even ask questions about him
because I don't like honing in on any specific individual, but when there's a
specific individual who seems like they're embedded at the deepest levels of
power structures that go as high as he does, they're claiming things to you and
Diana Pasolka that seem kind of otherworldly, you know, I just have to be
fascinated and it, and both you and Diana have, you know, public, you know,
followings. Yeah. Yeah.
And so I'm like, okay, like you have to know, like some of this stuff's going to
get out and you're gonna instill curiosity, you know, and I, you know, I don't
know if you know this, but I met him once for like 20 minutes.
[2:01:30] Jesse Michels:
Oh, you did?
[2:01:31] Chris Bledsoe:
Like a FaceTime or whatever.
[2:01:33] Jesse Michels:
Tim? You did? Yeah, I met him.
[2:01:36] Chris Bledsoe:
It was so stupid in retrospect because now I'd ask him so many other
[2:01:41] Jesse Michels:
questions. You
[2:01:42] Chris Bledsoe:
were tongue tied at that moment.
Well, not only tongue tied, I was, cause I was invested in this rocket company
and they were struggling to get off the launch pad and I, normally I'd separate
the woo woo UFO stuff entirely from like, you know, that world.
I don't, I, you know, try not to mix them at all, but, uh, I was kind of
desperate and I was like, okay, I, I did read this book, American cosmic.
And I know that like, you know, there's this guy and he claims to use
consciousness to get the rockets off the pad.
And so I'm like, if there's anything there, I know the guys I'm working with,
you know, invested in.
And they're not thinking about consciousness as any sort of factor component.
So that was the impetus for me to talk to him.
And we talked about that for 20 and the trippiest thing he said to me, and I
don't remember exactly how he said it, but it was clear.
This was the implication is he said for you to succeed in your rocket company,
like you have to know what they want, you know?
And like Diana said it, you know, called it the sponsors and that's,
[2:02:44] Jesse Michels:
you
[2:02:44] Chris Bledsoe:
know, but it's the, the, the beings or whatever.
Now, you know why he has a private office.
And then the only one with eyes on whatever comes up to that rocket.
And he's the only one with eyes on that.
Well, he's the one that he's at, uh, Cape Canaveral in that room.
What, where does the nickname, the dragon come from?
I don't know, but he has a tattoo on his arm of the dragon.
And when I was allowed to get on base, I had to get a tattoo right here.
Just, it was part of the mission. Really? And it was of a dragon. Whoa.
And then you have the dragon capsule. Uh,
[2:03:19] Jesse Michels:
you
[2:03:19] Chris Bledsoe:
know,
[2:03:19] Jesse Michels:
at
[2:03:19] Chris Bledsoe:
space
[2:03:19] Jesse Michels:
X and I don't know
[2:03:20] Chris Bledsoe:
if that's, do you think that's a coincidence or no, it was all part of it.
You think so? Yeah.
Um, when you were at Cape Canaveral, he was showing you around.
Did he show you anything interesting?
Yeah, a lot of stuff, anything exciting or kind of beyond what you would expect
just at a, you know, a
[2:03:42] Jesse Michels:
normal, I was like a
[2:03:43] Chris Bledsoe:
kid right here of the, the most secure place on the planet, Cape Canaveral, the
mission control. He told me it was more secure than the white house.
Nothing is just that secure.
And last time I talked about this, I got in trouble. Right. Really? Well, yeah.
Uh, one particular thing I mentioned on Danny Jones podcast.
Well, you got in trouble for saying something?
Well, yeah, well, it got, I don't want to say it here because it got his, got
it, it, it got the algorithm killed on that.
You said that, uh, the views were like, you know, it was like doing 50 K a day.
And

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:04:21] Jesse Michels:
then it cuts off, you speak to some rep at Google and they're like, we don't
know what the hell
[2:04:27] Chris Bledsoe:
happened here. It doesn't make any sense
[2:04:29] Jesse Michels:
given the
[2:04:29] Chris Bledsoe:
click-through rate average V duration, which should basically define the video's
performance.
He goes, the one other time I've seen this is with Jesse's David Grush video.
Exactly. Performance fell off a
[2:04:39] Jesse Michels:
cliff. Yep.
So, and he said that he said that my video with Bledsoe and your video with
Grush, neither of them broke any YouTube rules or had any internal red flags
that he was able to see. Yep.
And he goes, whenever this happens, which has happened one other time recently
with David Grush, it's basically the floor above me that I have no access to
something above my head that I don't know what the
[2:05:02] Chris Bledsoe:
hell's going on. So what the hell is going on? Yeah.
Danny Jones said that the video got totally like cut off throttled and he was
confused. And Danny, by the way, is not like a dogmatic UFO believer at all.
It goes back and forth on the whole thing a lot.
And he's apparently called this rep at Google and Google said, you know, the
only time this has ever happened and it's the floor above us and a video's
totally gotten nuked was Jesse Michael's David Grush interview. Yeah,
[2:05:33] UNKNOWN:
right. So.
[2:05:34] Chris Bledsoe:
Well, that happened with me and I put him in touch with my friend in Washington
and
[2:05:38] Jesse Michels:
the
[2:05:38] Chris Bledsoe:
CIA and I said, look, they just killed this. And he got to the bottom of it.
But he did. Yeah. And he figured out that there was actual possible obstruction.
Well, from what I heard was just something I mentioned, got the attention of the
news and the news called NASA and NASA's like, God, we don't want to talk about
this. What? This is crazy.
Well, because, I mean, Trump just designated NASA as a spy agency.
[2:06:08] Jesse Michels:
Well.
[2:06:08] Chris Bledsoe:
And it's already, it's, it's, you're already, you know, you're labeling a thing
that's already been the case for, you know, decades. Right.
But this is just confirmation of that. That's what?
[2:06:18] Jesse Michels:
Whoa.
[2:06:18] Chris Bledsoe:
That's what happened with that video with Danny.
Still got, what, 1.2 or 3 million views?
[2:06:25] Jesse Michels:
That's a
[2:06:25] Chris Bledsoe:
whole ton of views.
Do you, do you think that NASA has other propulsion modalities?
I think they've had it a long time. Really?
I know they were working on it a long time ago because I was asked to, to work
on which way electrons move. Really? Yeah. And what does that mean?
And what, what is it when working on it? Back engineering machines.
Reverse engineering UFO. Yeah. Really? Yep.
Are the UFOs like alien reproduction vehicles that like hover and then go into
space?
Or are they like high voltage chambers that are like portals, like in the movie
Contact, where you end up in some other dimensional
[2:07:12] Jesse Michels:
space? I
[2:07:13] Chris Bledsoe:
think it's probably both of that exists. I don't
[2:07:15] Jesse Michels:
know,
[2:07:16] Chris Bledsoe:
but. And you think NASA is sitting on this stuff? I don't know.
I don't know that NASA is necessarily, but there are satellite groups that keep
it under wraps. It is so far buried. Do
[2:07:29] Jesse Michels:
you think.
[2:07:30] Chris Bledsoe:
According to Tim, there were two generals at the Pentagon that knew everything.
And
[2:07:34] Jesse Michels:
which
[2:07:34] Chris Bledsoe:
general? Two. He didn't tell me. Interesting. Air Force generals. Air
[2:07:40] Jesse Michels:
Force generals.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:07:41] Chris Bledsoe:
See, when you go to NASA, the mission control, when you walk in there, it's a
square building with a long hallway in the very middle.
And when you walk down this hallway, it's glass.
It's glass on both sides, right?
And you look to the right, here's all NASA scientists and launching, you know,
at their consoles.
And you look to the left, it's exactly the same, but it's all Air Force people.
So they have dual redundancy.
Air Force over here and civilian on this side running every launch.
And Tim's in the middle of all of it.
And then once that rocket goes up, he disappears into this one little room that
has eyes on it. The whole time.
What was the most interesting thing you saw with your own eyes at Cape
Canaveral?
Probably, well, I learned some interesting things that I dare won't share.
Not on here, but I guess going into crew quarters was the greatest thing for me
because when we got there, this building had been built like in the late 50s
when they first started Mercury and launch.
And it was like a mission to the moon, right?
And only, according to Tim, only 300 people had ever been in that building in
all those years, only 300.
And he said, only one president, no congressman, anyone.
And he said, you know, don't go around sharing this because, here I am sharing
it, because they might get upset why they're not allowed in this place.
And those 300 people would include the staff that run the place, the den mother.
That's been there. I met her. She'd been there 35 years.
And she has a small group of people.
The doctor that's on, that lives there with the mom, the dad, and the children.
So those 300 people would be John Glenn and Armstrong and their family, right?
So their kids and their wives and all.
So a very small group of people had been in there.
And I got to tour the whole place and sit where the astronauts sit and have a,
to sit, in the boardroom and go in the doctor's offices and sit where they put
their spacesuits on. I got to look through all that and handle it. It's amazing.
But I was told that when you leave from here, you'll never be the same.
He said that every time that thing went up and when it came back down, something
came with them and was still there. What came with them? Well, the, what?
Whatever the spirit is, a phenomenon, something intelligent. Whoa. Is there.
Yep. So like, almost like a hitchhiker tag along effect or something.
They would go up and then they'd come back down, but be, they'd be hitched with
some sort of spiritual thing. Yeah. Whoa.
[2:10:49] Jesse Michels:
Yeah. He said that.
[2:10:50] Chris Bledsoe:
He told me that. And that's why they don't let everybody in there.
And do you, do you, so.
Is your take, cause there's, to me, there's something weird about the moon
landing.
I don't think it's necessarily fake, like, you know, not like full hoax or
something, but there's something that's feels very managed about our perception
on it. What do you think actually happened? That's a big one.
Cause I've learned some things since about that.
I've seen some photos of the moon and, um, some things I can't dare say, but
what I saw makes me wonder, is it. Is it real? Is it an illusion?
Was it put there?
Tim insinuated that it was, it wasn't there by accident, that it was set there.
That's all he would say.
They're very sly with their words, but I, I, I think that's the case too.
It's title locked. So you never see the dark side.
It's one 400th the size of the sun, but 400 times closer to the earth from the
sun in this sort of perfect way. And.
The conventional story of how it was made makes no sense
[2:12:03] Jesse Michels:
to
[2:12:03] Chris Bledsoe:
me.
The idea that there was some sort of proto earth and this Mars like object hit
earth or
[2:12:10] Jesse Michels:
whatever, like this
[2:12:11] Chris Bledsoe:
massive object hit or part of the earth's mantle came out and firm formed this
perfect cylindrical Prima facie.
You don't need to be an expert in this stuff to know that that's probably not
the case. Right. And then parts of it seem hollow.
There seem to be caverns in it.
They're, you know, they put seismometers on the moon, if you believe the face
value story of Apollo 11, even conventional, like nobody can argue with this.
They put, you know, seismometers on the moon and it ring like a bell. Right.
So, and then I think Gordon McDonald, who's Eisenhower's space advisor said the
moon would only make sense if it were hollow or something like that.
It's just a strange, it's a strange object. It is strange.
And it affects our thoughts. You think it affects our thoughts? Absolutely.
It does. Well,
[2:12:58] Jesse Michels:
you. You
[2:12:58] Chris Bledsoe:
have this sort of, you know,
[2:12:59] Jesse Michels:
check it and hide. You have
[2:13:00] Chris Bledsoe:
lunacy,
[2:13:01] Jesse Michels:
right? That word
[2:13:02] Chris Bledsoe:
lunacy, lunatic. That's where it came
[2:13:04] Jesse Michels:
from. That's
[2:13:04] Chris Bledsoe:
right. If you go to the sheriff's department, the jails fill up on a full moon.
Yeah, it's fair enough. Yeah.
And I mean, you do, you do have, you know, obviously women's cycles affected by
[2:13:14] Jesse Michels:
the,
[2:13:14] Chris Bledsoe:
by
[2:13:15] Jesse Michels:
the
[2:13:15] Chris Bledsoe:
moon, you know, the idea that it doesn't affect, I don't want to go full
astrology necessarily, but you know, the idea that it doesn't affect, you know,
ecological processes or biological processes. That's, that's wrong.
So then what, what is the extent of that effect? I don't know, but.
Something I saw tends to make me think that, um, that, um, it's an illusion or
it's, um, it is something I just can't say without getting.
What do you think it is? I think something about our soul.
What about the backside of it? What do you think?
Do you think there's some aliens there or beings there?
[2:13:57] Jesse Michels:
I
[2:13:58] Chris Bledsoe:
think there's something illuminated by it. There.
What do you think is illuminated back there?
[2:14:04] Jesse Michels:
I
[2:14:04] Chris Bledsoe:
don't know. Is it like the John Lear, like soul catcher?
No, I don't believe in all that, but man.
So what, what, what do you think is illuminated on the backside of the moon?
I don't know, but, um, I have to leave that.
If you were to give a high level riddle or hint. Um, I don't know.
I just think that the backside is nothing like the front side.
If you find photos of it.
If they're real, it doesn't look anything like the front side.
And from what I've seen, there is something behind it hidden back there.
And, and Tim seemed to think that it wasn't there by accident. Just the
[2:14:46] Jesse Michels:
mood.
[2:14:46] Chris Bledsoe:
Exactly what he told me. It wasn't by accident. Was it towed into place?
That was one of the things he was in towed into place. Yeah.
That was one of the conversations I heard. Wow. Do

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:15:00] Jesse Michels:
you
[2:15:00] Chris Bledsoe:
think, do you get the vibe that he has?
Some metaphysical worldview that is more concrete because the average person you
talk to them about metaphysics and if they speak in a self-assured way, they're
probably full of shit and they're either full of shit or they're really
epistemically humble and they're
[2:15:21] Jesse Michels:
like,
[2:15:22] Chris Bledsoe:
I don't know.
I take these things metaphorically and, you know, so it's like one or the other.
And then occasionally, occasionally, especially if you're a seeker, like, you
know, you are, I am.
You meet somebody and it's like, you have kind of a more concrete understanding
of what's going
[2:15:36] Jesse Michels:
on out
[2:15:37] Chris Bledsoe:
there. Right.
[2:15:38] Jesse Michels:
Do you feel like he's one of those people? He is a hundred percent that way.
You feel like
[2:15:41] Chris Bledsoe:
that? Yeah. And you don't think he was sort of conning you in any way
[2:15:45] Jesse Michels:
or?
[2:15:45] Chris Bledsoe:
No.
Well, I thought that some of the things he said flew in the face of what I
believed then.
But now years later, you know, I thought it's changed on this thing.
And so some of the things he was telling me makes more sense today.
Do you think there's a native American connection?
A lot of people, you know, I've interviewed Mario Woods on my show who, uh, you
know, is native of native American descent and people say that, you know, if you
have, yeah, that, that, that ancestry, you might be able to get in touch with
this stuff a little more easily. Other people say that about RH negative blood.
Do
[2:16:25] Jesse Michels:
you
[2:16:25] Chris Bledsoe:
think either of those things are true?
I think there's a possibility with the blood. I'm not sure about that, but I do.
No.
I know that I was, uh, a book showed up to my house that, uh, was sent from some
folks in the government, CIA and said, read this.
And it was the miss and I, I can't remember the whole title, but it was the
ancient mission lore of the Cherokee and it was written by James Mooney in 1891.
That's when it was published in 1891 by James Mooney.
And the book talks about the Cherokee little people.
It talks about the thunder boys. It talks about a missing time.
It talks about all sorts of stuff in this book.
And, um, that when they gave me that they were particularly interested if I had
a native American blood in my DNA.
And so I went and had all that done to ancestry and 23 and me come to find out.
I'm 99% Irish, British, Scottish, you know, so no native American there.
Have you ever seen a UFO in a hanger? Nope. You just seen it in the, in this
[2:17:48] Jesse Michels:
base
[2:17:49] Chris Bledsoe:
or on the ground.
Do you think that, uh, the kind of, you know, security establishment in the U S
has UFOs in, in its possession, the reverse engineering now?
Well, they're big liars if they don't cause they've been successful.
I've been saying it for years.
[2:18:05] Jesse Michels:
They haven't
[2:18:05] Chris Bledsoe:
really beaten that drum right now. They are big
[2:18:09] Jesse Michels:
liars. Same, same,
[2:18:10] Chris Bledsoe:
same story for 50, 70 years. Now we have this, we saw that my friend saw it.
I saw a letter. Here's another letter. I saw, I saw, I saw.
That's all you hear, but you never see. Yeah. That's what's so strange. Never.
Yeah.
[2:18:25] Jesse Michels:
It was very
[2:18:26] Chris Bledsoe:
me. I'm sharing it.
You know, I tell you there's orbs there and then we go out and we see them, but
I'm not labeling it.
And do you feel like, cause I think on Sean Ryan's show, Diana Pasolka spoke
about your experience almost as if you had been like messed with or something.
Do you feel like you've been messed with or manipulated in any way or. No.
Um, I think the phenomenon has a way of doing things to trick you.
You know, you hear jocks fillet, right? About the trickster.
Well, that's not a bad. Bad thing.
I think it's like the adjustment Bureau, same thing.
If, if, if Jesse, if you, if you want to go this direction, it might, it might
trick you to make you go in the opposite direction.
So it's kind of controlling your path.
So, um, that would be, yeah, I'm a few of that, but you don't feel like, um, the
Intel world has tried to. Shade your perception of things in any way.
[2:19:37] Jesse Michels:
I
[2:19:37] Chris Bledsoe:
think they have. Okay. Yeah, they have from the beginning.
They, they tried to make me believe in fine saucers and little green men.
Really? Yeah. And I kept telling them, no, it wasn't like that.
[2:19:49] Jesse Michels:
Interesting.
[2:19:50] Chris Bledsoe:
It wasn't like that.
But that, so who, who was trying to kind of implant those ideas?
Uh, hundreds of people within the government. I've met hundreds. Really?
And they all go back to that, you know, it was, you know, here, you know, I got
labeled. Uh, a religious fanatic because I said it was spiritual.
I've been saying it was spiritual for 19 years.
And so they were really adamant about, Hey, like, let's spin this towards this,
you know, kind of alien extraterrestrial
[2:20:17] Jesse Michels:
thing.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:20:18] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. Constantly alien, alien, alien. What you're seeing is negative, bad.
Really? Yeah. That's pretty crazy. Yeah. That's not cool. No, it's not cool.
So how do you explain that? What's happening there? Where you have. These.
Spooky.
People coming into your life, telling you that what you saw was alien when you
know it wasn't.
And then you have somebody like Jim semi van, who's very high up at the CIA
seems to pro I assume knows a lot about a whole lot of national security things
outside of the UFO issue. But the UFO issue he's gone very deep on for decades.
Right.
And he's being kind of an honest actor and telling you, you know, you experience
what you experienced. Do
[2:20:58] Jesse Michels:
you, do
[2:20:58] Chris Bledsoe:
you think he was, you know, honest with you?
[2:21:01] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[2:21:01] Chris Bledsoe:
Jim. Yeah. Yeah.
Uh, you know, I have a deep, uh, care for Jim and he does my family as well.
And we've shared a lot of stuff I know about his story and Debbie's his wife.
And, um, so you think they're factions?
Like, how do you make sense of the fact that you have one half of Intel world
spinning, you're attempting to spin your story and like kind of manipulate you.
And then you have another half that just seems kind of like good hearted. Well,
[2:21:33] Jesse Michels:
it's
[2:21:33] Chris Bledsoe:
kind of, it's kind of. It's kind of like this.
There's a group of lower level guys that have a mission to do, um,
disinformation, push a certain narrative, but you know, the people I'm meeting
are heads of their departments, not necessarily this low level guy.
I'm talking the head of the director of operations like Jim was at the CIA.
He was James Bond. That's
[2:21:57] Jesse Michels:
who
[2:21:57] Chris Bledsoe:
he was or director of operations. Yeah. Well, Jim was. Yeah.
What is that like ranking of the. So
[2:22:04] Jesse Michels:
he ran the
[2:22:05] Chris Bledsoe:
whole Northern hemisphere. Well, everybody answered to him. Yeah.
That's who he is. Very powerful guy and his friends.
I've met a lot of them from, you know, the deputy director.
And, and when you talk to these guys in private, they pick your brain and you
start learning more that, um, they're learning.
They want to know that that's, that's what I've come to the conclusion of, you
know, everybody's like, oh, it's a psyop. And they're trying.
To, you know, manipulate, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I, I've not been probably in as many of these rooms as you have, but I've
been
[2:22:41] Jesse Michels:
in some of
[2:22:42] Chris Bledsoe:
them. I'm sure. And I'm like, they're, they're like, we're fans and
[2:22:46] Jesse Michels:
we're, they're
[2:22:46] Chris Bledsoe:
like trying to piece stuff together through, I used to be so afraid I would do
certain interviews.
I'd break certain stories and I'd be like, oh, I got too close to the truth.
They're going to, they're going to come after me.
And then now I'm like, oh, they're probably learning alongside me and like
using, you know, the stuff I'm.
And through open-source research, like for their own shit or
[2:23:08] UNKNOWN:
whatever.
[2:23:09] Chris Bledsoe:
Well, for the most part, they're, they're, um, they truly are people like us and
they want to know, but there's a program of guys that's involved in the UFO
world, keeping that going.
But the, do you think, is there some, cause you met, you opened the book talking
about John Alexander, right?
John Alexander also seems to show when people experience paranormal things like
the Hutchinson effect.
You know, John Hutchinson, California, sort of, you know, metallic equipment
seems to hover in like, you know, malfunction around him.
It seems to have like all these electromagnetic anomalies emitting from his
body.
Um, you, you know, other cases, John Alexander will kind of consistently show
up. Um, I think he's briefed on that.
Like, I think he knew about Rendlesham before
[2:23:58] Jesse Michels:
anybody else.
[2:23:59] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah, he did a hundred percent. John is what's his deal. John has been.
And let's just say he's probably the number one researcher in the paranormal
world for the U S government has been for many, many years. Yeah.
His wife is works, study and religion as a part of this.
And he's been to 90, 92 countries doing, um, research and to everything from
churches to ceremonies in Mongolia, the reindeer herders, you know, the reindeer
monk. He, they. I rode horses a hundred miles.
And do you think he has a pure agenda or do you think that he has an agenda to
find the truth?
And, but he does, he does often he'll see these things and then he'll kind of
semi debunk them. And I don't think he did in your case, but
[2:24:53] Jesse Michels:
I think
[2:24:53] Chris Bledsoe:
in other, like, uh, you know, the Hutchinson thing, he'll show up and he'll be
like, well, it kind of works at sometimes, but it's, you know, like if you read
his writing, it's often like. It's not as. Magical as you think, sort
[2:25:06] Jesse Michels:
of
[2:25:07] Chris Bledsoe:
like, you kind of like, you know, but John's more in line of, um, he don't look
at the physical thing as being the truth of it, or the alien thing as being the
truth of it. He doesn't see it that way.
He's more about, it's more, that's too easy.
[2:25:29] Jesse Michels:
It's
[2:25:29] Chris Bledsoe:
far more complex than that. This thing does it, for example. Hmm.
In the 1800s, 1700s, go back and read all the reports on UFOs, people were
seeing, I read a story of, uh, a sailing ship with glowing sails flying over
London and an anchor comes out and snags a chimney and breaks the top off of a
chimney, a boat, a flying boat. Right.
So here's these flying ships, uh, sky ships, they call them for many, many
years. In fact, the first report. Yeah.
I've heard of in America was Aurora, Texas.
It was a sky ship that crashed into the wind tower. Right. 1897.
And they buried an alien there. You know where they buried him? Where?
In my family, right beside my family cemetery. Really? Yeah. That's weird. Yeah.
That is really trippy. Masonic cemetery. What? Yeah.
So do you, do you have other trippy things like that in your family history?
Yeah. Quite a bit of stuff. Tim was the one that started that research with me.
Way back

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:26:37] Jesse Michels:
in
[2:26:37] Chris Bledsoe:
Diana. Yeah.
So Tim is sort of an error in some ways to John Alexander, where he's also doing
a lot of this sort
[2:26:44] Jesse Michels:
of
[2:26:45] Chris Bledsoe:
paranormal research.
[2:26:46] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[2:26:46] Chris Bledsoe:
But what's so interesting to me is he's has a functional job at NASA too. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, that's part of his job.
[2:26:53] UNKNOWN:
Wow.
[2:26:53] Chris Bledsoe:
Do
[2:26:54] Jesse Michels:
you
[2:26:54] Chris Bledsoe:
think that space, like our space travel program is somehow related to studying
these paranormal things? Yeah. How
[2:27:02] Jesse Michels:
do you think it's related?
[2:27:03] Chris Bledsoe:
Well, you heard him talk about it when you were speaking about, uh, creating,
investing in a rocket company, it's up to them, right? I don't know.
[2:27:13] Jesse Michels:
You know, I, I
[2:27:14] Chris Bledsoe:
know the history of rocketry, you know, and I know Jack Parsons thought he was
in touch with, you know, other beings and literally saw like, uh,
[2:27:22] Jesse Michels:
w
[2:27:23] Chris Bledsoe:
what you could describe as a Nordic alien woman, you know, while he was testing
rockets, you know, in California, uh, in the Mojave desert. I know that.
Um, Tsiolovsky, the Russian equivalent thought he was in touch with angelic
beings. Herman Oberth, you know, the, the father of the German
[2:27:39] Jesse Michels:
rocket,
[2:27:39] Chris Bledsoe:
rocket program, all of them thought that. Thought they were in angels. Yeah.
So, but then I also know Elon Musk, you know, kind of dismisses the whole alien
thing and.
Well, Hal Paulymeier told me, and, uh, before I tell you that we'll get back to
the flying ships. Right. In 1947, Kenneth Arnold sees, uh, these little Chevron.
Flying about, and they were kind of moving freely and, you know, half a dozen of
them. And the reporter says, well, how did they move, Kenneth?
And he said, well, if you took a saucer out of the cupboard and you threw it and
it skipped on the water, he said, that's the way they look.
Well, the reporter said, ah, Kenneth Arnold sees flying saucers, right?
So it goes out on the news.
AP wire now billion plus people has it implanted in their brain. 50 years.
What did they see? Saucers. Flying saucers. Where'd they go? Yeah.
[2:28:36] Jesse Michels:
Where
[2:28:37] Chris Bledsoe:
are they? Right. Then comes a triangle in the 80s or 90s.
All of a sudden, everybody's seeing triangles. Yes. Then I come along in 07.
These big balls of fire come. Mifflin's like, well, what were they?
I said, I don't know. They wasn't flying saucers. They were, they were light.
They were like orbs. And so that kind of hung it. And from 2000, last night.
10 years, it's been orbs.
So our perception of something celestial and in some almost like other world
plate to platonic realm that we can't understand or comprehend is being sort of
shaded by basically media by like our, the memes that we have
[2:29:21] Jesse Michels:
in our, in
[2:29:21] Chris Bledsoe:
our head. Right. That's fascinating.
And to anybody, is this such a cool conversation to have with you?
Because I think some people throw around the term like psyop w like with you and
stuff.
And I'm like, the fact that you're saying all this stuff is like, so opposite,
the opposite
[2:29:38] Jesse Michels:
of like
[2:29:38] Chris Bledsoe:
somebody who's dogmatically like, you know, proposing the kind of extra
terrestrial hypothesis.
It's like, you're basically saying like, we're in some limited, you know,
epistemological realm or whatever.
And we're seeing something that's unexplained. And that's a humble claim.
I don't think that I'm not here to label it.
Cause I would be lying if I told you, I knew. Yeah.
All I can tell you is 19 years of patterns.
I can tell you that I get a lot of people to call me that want to tell me their
story. I've covered my book empowers these people.
And I get this little lady calls me one night and it's just for an example.
And she's like, um, she said, I saw this ball of light go by my kitchen window.
Can, um, and I hear, she said this, she said, she's 87.
She said, I hear tell you're the person that would know about these things.
I said, well, yeah, um, I try to help you, you know, so tell me what happened.
She said, I was washing dishes and it came up to the window and it scared me and
it went away. I said, well, what was going on with you right then?
She saw I was washing dishes. I said, no, what was your life like?
And soon as she said it, I knew it's the same story for 19 years over and over
and over and over a thousand. Times is my husband died the week before.
And it's always the same. People start seeing this stuff. I had a near death.
Um, uh, my daughter died, my mom died, my son died or something horrible.
I think it's always that way.
It's almost like, um, I think about it, them showing up at nuclear sites, which
they seem to show up at. And if there was some. Archimedes lever point.
Point of most leverage to shift timelines on like a globe, global scale, it
would be there.
And then in somebody's life, maybe you'd show up at peak highs and peak lows and
sort of the, the, you know, peaks in the valleys or something.
And I wonder if that's the case. I
[2:31:55] Jesse Michels:
wonder if, well, is that

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:31:57] Chris Bledsoe:
anecdotally your case?
I mean, do you think people even in, in like kind of peak states also see them?
Cause that's, that's been my anecdotal understanding.
Yeah, I think it's possible. Right.
But I do know that the majority of the people witnessing this now is different
because it is coming, it's revealing itself and there's no stopping that.
It's gonna reveal itself completely.
Uh, and, and it's what it's doing is cracking people's consciousness.
Just a little bit makes you think, you know, it may not convert that person, but
it, it, they're like, oh my God, there is something out there. So it's.
It's expanding our consciousness.
Do you think other people think that you are the Messiah?
I've been asked to, yeah, but I don't see that.
I'm just a poor guy that had, uh, has had a hard time. Yeah.
And, uh, it's not been easy. It's been a burden more than anything.
And I'm just a messenger.
I know that I can share this with people and after I do, then it's yours.
You can, you can. Connect with it from then.
So it's not like something that I have, it's something that everybody has the
right to. Mm.
Do you feel like you, you have an understanding of metaphysics that's deeper
than the average person's like, is it, is there some sort of thing that you can
relay about how the world works?
No, I'm still trying to pick her that, but, um, and I'm not in a shell.
I know that we're not in control.
[2:33:38] Jesse Michels:
Hmm.
[2:33:38] Chris Bledsoe:
That our thoughts are completely understood by something above us that knows
everything about you. It knows your heart.
It knows your intentions and it will guide you, or it will tear you down if
you're going the wrong way. That's the trickster part of it. But is that bad?
You know, it's intended for you to marry this person, not that one.
It might do what it takes to get you to meet this person. Yeah. So fascinating.
Yeah.
And it's your job to be receptive and to kind of ride the ride the wave or
listen to the synchronicities, or yeah. That's what I do.
I listened to his synchronicities, but my job is to share a truth that, uh,
everyone's been told is not real.
And, uh, uh, I caught so much problem from the community in 2007, when this
happened, half my family, 2 3rds of my family.
in my family I quit speaking to, my own cousins and family.
And it was because they wouldn't believe me or I was being accused of messing
with the devil, right?
And so they actively got hard on me and tried to remove my children from me.
That was early on, right after it happened.
And so I kind of took offense to everyone and I made a vow then I'm gonna prove
them all wrong. I'm gonna prove the world wrong. That's what I said.
I made that and I worked on it pretty hard for 19 years of revealing something
that nobody says is real.
And what that is, I can't tell you with 100% certainty, but I can tell you in 19
years of patterns and never no harm to me or anyone else that has experienced
this. And I've shared it with thousands
[2:35:34] UNKNOWN:
of
[2:35:34] Chris Bledsoe:
people. Do you think the idea of disclosure is kind of a misnomer?
It's the idea that the government can disclose some sort of like metaphysical
truth that they have this asymmetric understanding of.
Yeah, I think we're in post-disclosure. Disclosure is not an announcement.
They're never gonna give you the secrets.
You know, if they have a machine, you're not gonna see it.
And I wouldn't want them to because somebody else could get ahold of it and it
could be terrible, right? So it's national security.
They're never gonna give you that.
So they're just gonna give a talk all the time. We have, we've seen, we have.
Disclosure is a one person at the time awakening. Suddenly you see it's real.
You saw an orb, oh my God, what was it?
I don't know what it was, but it wasn't an airplane.
And it stopped and it came up to me and it flashed me and it went away.
Well, that absolutely changes everybody's world paradigm.
It just completely changes it and sets you on a different, a different course
then.
So awakening or disclosure is for those, there's a lot of people that's already,
that knows. And so I don't think the government's gonna ever announce anything.
They're just gonna keep telling you we have this and we saw that and make people
get curious and start investigating.
What do you think people's relationship should be to your story?
Because on the one hand you were cured of Crohn's disease. And
[2:37:12] Jesse Michels:
I
[2:37:13] Chris Bledsoe:
know you've had some other physical challenges since then, but that's a really
major thing that
[2:37:17] Jesse Michels:
kind
[2:37:17] Chris Bledsoe:
of you were alleviated by and presumably linked to this kind of amazing event in
January of 2007.
Do you think people can experience spontaneous healings and should they go for
that? Or
[2:37:34] Jesse Michels:
should they
[2:37:34] Chris Bledsoe:
go for the like incremental kind of more deliberate thing?
Like is that, it feels like catching lightning in a bottle. Yeah.
And how can that happen in a repeatable way unless Jesus is real or something
[2:37:48] Jesse Michels:
and
[2:37:49] Chris Bledsoe:
can heal us?
Well, I said earlier, maybe we have our own power to heal ourselves.
We just don't know it. Do you feel like you healed yourself in that instance?
[2:37:59] Jesse Michels:
Or they healed you? No, I
[2:38:01] Chris Bledsoe:
think they healed me. And I think that they will heal or they can.
They can heal you. I've seen it too many times.
[2:38:10] Jesse Michels:
I've
[2:38:10] Chris Bledsoe:
seen it happen in Australia over the phone. Long distance, that's it.
And magic happens at that point. And I don't claim that as me doing it.
I'm just the mediator guy. I just present our picture to the heavens. Yeah.
So, you know, it's all thought and intention.
Our thoughts are very powerful and our intentions.
[2:38:32] Jesse Michels:
I know they
[2:38:33] Chris Bledsoe:
are. Yeah, they really are. Right. And they, everything was once a thought.
And I think thoughts have a much greater effect on reality than just thought
converts to action, which produces this mechanical sort of, you know, pinball
machine, which
[2:38:52] Jesse Michels:
ends
[2:38:52] Chris Bledsoe:
up doing a thing.
There's clearly something else going on that I think will be proven out by
science. I think you're right there. Yeah. Yeah.
Do you think that there's a space program involving consciousness that's deeper
than, because you think about, you know, there's this, you know, 17th century
Swedish mystic, Emanuel Swedenborg.
And he described, you know, going up into the cosmos and seeing all these, you
know, stars and planets,
[2:39:20] Jesse Michels:
and
[2:39:20] Chris Bledsoe:
you've had out of body experiences and you've been to the Monroe Institute.
Right.
If I was forming some, you know, sleeper cell space program that might be able
to traverse farther than just NASA nuts and bolts craft, if you believe remote
viewing is a real modality, you have to believe some sort of astral space travel
is also real. It is real.
So do you think there's some sort of vital program in the government that
involves consciousness-based space travel?
I think they've attempted that and still are trying to. They have to have.
Yeah, yeah.
And you even watch Carl Sagan's Contact and it's like, that's kind of what
you're touching on. Yeah, exactly. You know?
Or you, you know, Christopher Nolan, who you read, you watch Interstellar and
then you read the physics of Interstellar by Kip Thorne.
if anybody was kind of dripped some interesting info, it probably would have
been, you know, Nolan. Right. And it's just so fast.
It's like this fifth dimensional space that, you know, where you can travel kind
of maybe between timelines.
And then when you die, you're able to, you know, traverse that.
And it's sort of hard to talk about a lot of these things, but.
That's a big one.
You know, I believe when we die, that based on the photo evidence I have, you
may have, you know, some of that that I shared with Anna,
[2:40:46] Jesse Michels:
right?
[2:40:46] Chris Bledsoe:
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
In fact, it's going to come out on our pod where she shows some really
interesting photos.
Well, you see photos with people in them or children or animals.
Where did I get that? How did I get those?
And this was right after the lady came.
And at that time I didn't have a video camera.
I had a cell phone with the flip phone, right?
But I went out and bought a little pocket camera, a little Instamatic.
And I started taking just every night.
I wasn't able to get anything before, but from that point forward, I did.
And it's like my dog died. I wrote about this in the book.
I was with Tim at Cape Canaveral for a week.
And some guys from the NRO and we were meeting and at a launch and had been
there all week. And it was Saturday.
Launch finally went off Saturday, delayed all week.
My wife knew I was coming home at Sunday morning or Sunday night.
I was going to leave after the launch, Saturday night, get up Sunday morning,
drive home. So at four o'clock it was over.
I said, Tim, I'm going to Fayetteville. So I got my car and I took off.
Didn't tell anybody, drove all night long, all night.
Pulled over to rest areas, 13 hours, right?
From my house there, pulled over and took a nap.
8.30 Sunday morning, I drove in the yard.
When I drove in the yard, I knew immediately that my Labrador was dead.
I knew it. I knew it. I can't tell you how I knew it, but I knew it.
Just came right into my mind. I saw it all. I felt it.
My kids and family had buried her in the backyard three days before.
Never told me because they didn't want me upset, right?
It was like my child, this 90 pound Labrador, female named Nellie.
I opened the front door and walked in.
My wife's asleep at the front door in the living room on the couch, house full
of kids. They'd been up all weekend. They had invited all their friends.
So mom kind of would stay near the front where all the bedrooms were.
Our little girl, she was the only girl, right?
So mom's doing, she's doing her patrol to keep any boys away from her.
That's what moms do. So I walked in the door and I opened it.
She looks up at me. I said, what happened to my dog? And her eyes got big.
And she said, oh my God, how did you know? I said, well, I felt her.
She said, well, she ran out on the road and got run over by a car.
And we buried her in the backyard. So I took, and I thought about it all day.
And that night I thought, she don't know she's dead. That's how I knew it.
It was when I turned off the road right where she was killed.
It just kind of felt her and saw her in my thoughts.
So I took a little white candle. I went out to her grave and I lit it.
And I told her, I said, I'll be with you again. Just go to the light.
And she comes up out of her grave and a little ball of light.
And I took that picture and that's how I got that.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:43:58] UNKNOWN:
Wow,
[2:44:00] Chris Bledsoe:
that's amazing. And you should have a copy of it. I would love to see that.
Yeah,
[2:44:05] Jesse Michels:
we
[2:44:05] Chris Bledsoe:
could put that up. So what does that tell you?
You know, what does that tell you?
And I've got people, lots of people and children.
In fact, I have a child, my wife and I lost a child. We have four, but we lost.
A child and I was out thinking about him and this lonely orb, here it comes.
And I took a picture of it and there was a child. Yeah. In the orb.
In the orb and this is my screenshot. Wow. I'm gonna show
[2:44:44] Jesse Michels:
you. Oh my
[2:44:45] Chris Bledsoe:
God, that's a real photo. That's a photo of a child and it was a ball of light.
That's a real photo. Yeah. That is amazing. So what does that tell you?
I believe that when, I think that we're in a simulation or we're in this avatar
that we experience time because of our body, but beyond the body, there is no
time.
And I think when we die that we go back to that eternal place, which is in
church, they tell you it's somewhere way far away, but I think it's just around
us. Yeah. Well, there's. Time is created by the mind and
[2:45:26] Jesse Michels:
the body
[2:45:27] Chris Bledsoe:
and time is the most used noun in the English language, but nobody knows how to
define it without respect to the movement of bodies or things.
It's always something defined relative to something else.
So if you're doing that over and over again, then it has to be this soup that
you're swimming in where you can't get out of it. Exactly.
You're like in water and you don't, it's like this David Foster Wallace speech
where he goes, this is water, you know, and it's like, you're, you're, you're a
fish in water. You have no idea what you're in. We're in this stream of time.
There's no way out of it. There's no way to talk about it. And really, you know.
There's no words for
[2:46:05] Jesse Michels:
it. There's no
[2:46:05] Chris Bledsoe:
words for it. That photo is amazing. Yeah. Can we show this to like a NASA
[2:46:11] Jesse Michels:
photo
[2:46:11] Chris Bledsoe:
instrumentation person?
[2:46:12] Jesse Michels:
Yeah, I don't
[2:46:13] Chris Bledsoe:
care. A lot of them have already seen it. Okay.
I tell you, I was just to tell you how it is with NASA.
I was at, I was in a Capitol Hill club. Mm-hmm.
When the, when the, when the hearing, the recent hearing that happened, right?
Yeah.
And, and in fact, it was Anna Brady and a bunch of those friends of hers and
without using names.
And we were having hors d'oeuvres with, with Eric Burleson and Anna Luna, right?
And afterwards we went out and did a sky watch on the, the Library of Congress,
right? We were up on the platform.
And suddenly a swerve appears and for 45 minutes it did figure eights over the
Capitol and the White House. So, and Burleson saw it.
[2:47:03] Jesse Michels:
No,
[2:47:03] Chris Bledsoe:
Burleson wasn't there. He had gone home, but Anna was there.
[2:47:06] Jesse Michels:
Anna
[2:47:06] Chris Bledsoe:
was there. And a whole group of other people, Eric Zydak from PG&E Power.
Donna Roberts from the International Space Station. She was standing next to me.
Others, I can't say their name, but they've come out publicly, this group.
Oh, excuse me, Tracy McGill. She's an analyst for the DOA, DOD, I think. Whoa.
Fascinating. So they all got to experience it.
While we were having dinner, you were talking about NASA people.
This guy walks up and he's, he gives me a big hug.
He said, Chris, I'm a huge fan. And he introduced me to his son.
We'd never met, right? But he was one of the highest ranking guys at NASA.
He walks up and hugs me. And he says, I'm a huge fan of yours. NASA. Yeah.
So why is NASA publicly? It's their policy. They're
[2:48:08] Jesse Michels:
gaslighting the public. The people there, the
[2:48:10] Chris Bledsoe:
people there are just like me and you. It's so funny.
Cause it's like, you see them publicly and it's like, they're doing this thing
on three eye Atlas.
And it's like, the photo is the resolution of, it's like, you're looking at a
lamp
[2:48:24] Jesse Michels:
post. Yeah,
[2:48:24] Chris Bledsoe:
right. You know, on, it's like a street light or something. Yeah. It's horrible.
And the amateur astronomers are getting better stuff. Exactly.
And then privately, they're going to you saying, we're, we're big fans. Yeah.
So interesting. Isn't that crazy? It is crazy. That's a little frustrating.
It's like, can you close, can you split the, close the gap a little bit between
your public and your private, you know, perception?
[2:48:47] Jesse Michels:
One thing Hal
[2:48:48] Chris Bledsoe:
told me, Hal Poppenmeier. We were, we loved him.
My children loved Hal because he became, you know, my dad died in 2013.
And he was, you know, my dad died in 2013. And he, Hal came in 2008. And.
[2:49:02] Jesse Michels:
You just showed up at your door, right? Yeah. Knocked on the door in 2008.
He's a massive guy

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:49:06] Chris Bledsoe:
showing up at your door.
And so he'd come three or four times a year and stay a week at the time.
And his biggest thing was my children.
He would, they would bring school friends over and he'd have a big, you know, he
loved kids. So he'd pull out Mastodon teeth and Tektites.
And it was just a big party of science. And he loved that. But.
Hal told me he died in 2019. He died in 2019.
He was coming to our house for Thanksgiving, he and Katie, and he fell and hit
his head and went in a coma and never woke up. Right?
But he told me right before he died, he said, Chris, I want to tell you one
thing. He said, I've wondered for many years. He said, what this phenomenon is.
Oh, I know all about it. He said, you know, I've seen it all.
He said, I don't even know it.
He said, but we've always been on the fence of what it is we're dealing with.
But he said, when I know now, to me it's, he believed it was angelic.
They were always on the fence of what it is.
But he observed it with me a lot and saw its nature and how it would react to
certain words and certain prayer. And was he religious?
Well, he wasn't religious at all, but he was, toward the end of his life, he
became very open in prayer and stuff. That'll make you religious.
Tim Taylor had a conversion
[2:50:41] Jesse Michels:
right at the
[2:50:42] Chris Bledsoe:
Vatican where he converted to Catholicism. Yeah, exactly. It's fascinating.
So that's where the stink takes you.
It takes you down that path if you interact with it, it will.
There's an apocryphal quote that's often attributed to Warden of Heisenberg.
And?
You know, he's this amazing physicist, but he was also in charge of the German
nuclear program under the Nazis.
But also a much deeper philosophical guy, and he regretted his kind of role in
that stuff.
And he says, the first sip of the bottle, you know, of science makes you an
atheist. But when you get to the bottom, you find God at the bottom. Right.
That's where Hal was at the end. Yeah. That's what it sounds like. Yeah, exactly
[2:51:27] Jesse Michels:
what it was. Yeah.
[2:51:27] Chris Bledsoe:
That photo you showed me with the child in the orb, that looks exactly like in
2001 Space Odyssey, at
[2:51:38] Jesse Michels:
the end of
[2:51:38] Chris Bledsoe:
the movie, where Bowman, he's, you know, going up on the ship, and then he ends
up, I don't know what happens, but there's this, it's this weird, bizarre,
surreal scene.
And you see the monolith, and then all of a sudden it cuts to this baby
hovering. Hovering over the earth in this, like, orb capsule thing.
Yeah, crazy, right. And I watched, I remember watching that.
It's one of those things where I'm like, I am too unenlightened and dumb to know
what this means.
[2:52:10] Jesse Michels:
Right.
[2:52:11] Chris Bledsoe:
But I know it means something. And that's what a lot of the UFO topic is.
It's like the sound of the one hand clapping, the Zen koan, you're like, and it
just makes you want to go further.
And you're like, you see something, you're like, you don't quite know what it
means, but you're like, that, there's something about that. They're saying this.
And if anybody knew kind of, you know, some deeper truths about reality, like, I
do think Arthur C. Clarke, Stanley Kubrick, guys like that
[2:52:36] Jesse Michels:
were
[2:52:37] Chris Bledsoe:
tapped into something deeper. And so that photo tripped me out because
[2:52:41] Jesse Michels:
I'm like, what
[2:52:42] Chris Bledsoe:
did, what did they know?
And, you know, is that photo, you know, somehow lining up with what they knew?
I think they probably knew a lot more than they had to.
And the government knows a lot more, but this, everybody that see anybody in the
ranks wants to see this stuff. They want to know. They want to know about it.
Yeah. I believe it. Who wouldn't? Yeah.
Does the stuff, you know, about the dark side of the moon point towards sort of
a simulated world?
[2:53:08] Jesse Michels:
Yeah,
[2:53:09] Chris Bledsoe:
it does. Yeah.
Well, that, then you get into these things around, like, why, why can't we have
disclosure? You can't say that official, if you're
[2:53:17] Jesse Michels:
in some
[2:53:18] Chris Bledsoe:
like official government position, you can't, you cannot say like, I would, I
want as much disclosure as, as humanly possible, but like if you're Trump, yeah,
that might be tough. That might be. Exactly.
[2:53:29] Jesse Michels:
You
[2:53:30] Chris Bledsoe:
go up there on the podium, you go, we're in a simulated
[2:53:34] Jesse Michels:
universe.
[2:53:35] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah, right.
You're, you're, you're, uh, everything is, you're in a karmic whirlpool where
you get stuck.
You experience the same thing over and over again, but with a different veneer.
Time is actually an illusion.
[2:53:46] Jesse Michels:
Yeah. And
[2:53:47] Chris Bledsoe:
that veneer is just the changing of memes that are implanted in
[2:53:50] Jesse Michels:
your head by some
[2:53:51] Chris Bledsoe:
alien that, like, if you started to go deeper into that, where does that lead?
Where does that lead? That leads to a very, you know.
And I, I think we might be headed there anyways.
I don't think we need authority figures necessarily to say

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:54:03] Jesse Michels:
these things.
[2:54:04] Chris Bledsoe:
I think we're going to, I think what's going to happen is that basically the way
I see this is consciousness is just one big unified field, right? It's all one.
And everything that exists is in that one from the ghosts to the aliens or to
the angels and to us.
And I think we're in the process of rolling humanity's role.
We're rolling into that next dimension.
In other words, it'll be a world of, um, where we all in it, where we see it
more. And it's part of our reality is shifting.
[2:54:42] Jesse Michels:
And when
[2:54:42] Chris Bledsoe:
it's fascinating, it's so interesting.
It's so fun to talk to you because I think a lot of people have said, oh, like,
it's like you're too open minded or something is
[2:54:53] Jesse Michels:
the,
[2:54:53] Chris Bledsoe:
you know, the, the critique or something.
And I have a lot of critiques hurled at me.
[2:54:57] Jesse Michels:
So don't take that
[2:54:58] Chris Bledsoe:
personally. But, uh. I think so.
I think if you believe in the parapsychology stuff, which I do, that there's
some sort of mind matter connection. Absolutely.
Then I think there's a correlation between openness and your effect on the
material world or like your, what you perceive as well.
And so I think inherently there will be at times errors made due to that
openness because you're sifting in this area. That is so uncharted. Exactly.
But you're also going to like, you know, come upon like really core deep truths
and I don't know if you can have one without the other. And so, you know what I
[2:55:43] Jesse Michels:
mean? Yeah. A
[2:55:44] Chris Bledsoe:
hundred percent.
Like, like, you know, I'm sure I've explored all sorts of like crazy stuff, but,
but in reality, I think it, you know, my, I think my worldview is actually
sometimes crazier than I can even communicate via the show. Yeah.
And it's really about catching people up. Yeah.
You know, epistemically and like taking people through this, like rigorous,
like, well, let's start with the foundation. Like that photo is real.
It's been verified. You know,
[2:56:08] Jesse Michels:
like
[2:56:08] Chris Bledsoe:
you need to do that because we're in this materialist reductionist scientific
paradigm. Right.
Um, but, and, and, and you'll make a lot of, you know, errors along the way, but
yeah, it's this really kind of hard thing because you, you make one error and
you get these kind of debunker skeptic types and they'll just hang on that one
error. Yeah. For the whole, and it's like, they're seeing what they want to see.
Well, the thing people give these debunkers and skeptics too much power. Yeah.
Oh boy. I don't even pay them attention. Yeah. To me, they're just uninformed.
Well, I think the thing that deflates them too is like, I'll admit, like, I've
gotten a whole ton of stuff wrong. Like, and
[2:56:51] Jesse Michels:
I hope, I
[2:56:51] Chris Bledsoe:
hope you would admit
[2:56:52] Jesse Michels:
that too. Yeah, I have. I
[2:56:54] Chris Bledsoe:
changed, you know, we learned. Yeah, that's right. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
And as long as you can adapt with. Right.
New information that comes in, you know, then this is all it's, it's, it's
really new territory. So. Oh,
[2:57:06] Jesse Michels:
there's,
[2:57:07] Chris Bledsoe:
there's no book. There's no, there's no vocabulary for this. None.
It's all invisible and we have to create a vocabulary for it and we've got to
put a story to it, right? As humans do that.
So you're constantly adjusting that as you go and pulling all the information
together Yeah.
down the road you think, well, what you thought before is not correct, you know,
so it could be different. So I leave an open mind to it.
I try not to label it, but I will go so far as to say that it's been benevolent
and I've seen healings from it and I know how it answers when I say certain
words. It gets excited. Which words? The lady. Really? That's all you gotta say.
The lady. The lady. Interesting. Yep.
When you start talking about her, and I can do this, I can take a group of
people outside at night, I've done it over and over and over, take a mic if we
got a big enough group.
It's gotten pretty simple because, and I shouldn't say it's simple, it's
complex, but still it's happened so much that it's pretty crazy.
Do you think there are pockets, air pockets of consensus reality and what I mean
by that is like, do you think, you know the Mandela effect? Yeah.
So this idea that a lot of people in the 90s thought that Mandela died in
prison, which he obviously didn't, you know?
Do you think that reality might work more like that than we think?
And so certain mystical experiences happen and the people with eyes to see and
ears to hear experience it and then other people walk away and they're like,
yeah, I don't know, it was a thing, it happened or whatever, or they like, we'll
superimpose some prosaic explanation upon the thing.
And reality itself is far more fractured, malleable, and in the eye of the
beholder than what
[2:59:14] Jesse Michels:
it is. Yeah,
[2:59:15] Chris Bledsoe:
and it's changing.
It's constantly changing like the Mandela effect you talked about.
One thing that surprised me is my wife and I've been married 43 years, right?
So our honeymoon was in New York City. We'd never been there, either one of us.
We had a plan. We wanted to see the train station, Grand Central Station, right?
So we go to Grand Central Station and we get photos and videos and we took a
helicopter ride and we did all kind of things to experience New York.
And so I'm looking at my old photos of Grand Central Station, right?
Well, Google it now.
It's not called that, it's called Grand Central Terminal and it says it's never
been called that. But yet I got photos of Grand Central Station. Yeah.
[3:00:02] Jesse Michels:
Written on the thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
[3:00:04] Chris Bledsoe:
But you see it now, it says Grand Central Terminal. What's that about?
Well, you know, the Flintstones, the Berenstys, Berenstein Bears, all these
things where people swear that, you know, it was like one way and then you look
at the record and
[3:00:23] Jesse Michels:
it actually looks like there's another way.
[3:00:24] Chris Bledsoe:
Yeah. And, you know, it is this really amazing phenomena.
And then you get into deeper studies, like there's this neuroscience.
I mean, you know, there's a scientist, Wilder Penfield, and you realize that
there is no way of distinguishing between false memories and true memories.
[3:00:40] Jesse Michels:
And he

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[3:00:41] Chris Bledsoe:
shows this with the ability to implant false memories into mice and stuff.
And then you get, if there are these beings and any thoughts can be sort of
implanted, you get into really weird ontological territory where the past, and
even Schrodinger himself would say, a particle is measured in the present, you
know, it might change its past. Right.
And you get into retrocausality in quantum mechanics.
There's obviously spooky action at a distance,
[3:01:07] Jesse Michels:
but
[3:01:07] Chris Bledsoe:
there's also spooky action across time. Right.
It seems like if you have two entangled photons and two double slit experiments
run with those, you know, entangled photons, seems like photon B that you're
doing the experiment with two days in the future, if you measure that and you
don't measure the first one, the measurement of the one in the future is
affecting the one of the measurement in the past. Exactly.
There's a great book called Biocentrism, that this guy Robert Lanza writes about
this stuff.
So you get into really trippy territory where the past becomes, the present is
this constricted present, but it's like an hourglass where you have probable
futures and probable pasts. Right.
And the present is this measurement sensor that is single line of code updating
the past and maybe updating the future at the same time. Right.
And it's this very strange sort of model, but there's no real way to argue
against that other than physical artifacts.
So if you have physical artifacts around an event happening,
[3:02:05] Jesse Michels:
you can
[3:02:05] Chris Bledsoe:
argue, say this is evidence that this happened this way or this happened another
way.
If you have conflicting physical artifacts where you don't have physical
artifacts, it's totally one word against the other word
[3:02:17] Jesse Michels:
or you
[3:02:18] Chris Bledsoe:
can get into like numbers of people who believe one thing or numbers of people
that believe another thing. But we have no idea how reality works.
We have no idea. We have a very limited, we are measurement sensors.
And so this idea that science is some ontological statement of truth, like no,
it's the map, it's not the territory. Exactly.
It's just we see very limited scopes of reality. Right.
And time is the weirdest thing of all.
Yeah, that has messed with me ever since I went there and saw that.
And now everything I dig up, it says it was never called that.
Yeah, Grand Central,
[3:02:56] Jesse Michels:
yeah. But the sign was on the wall. It's funny, as you
[3:02:58] Chris Bledsoe:
said Grand Central Station, I was like, oh, of course, Grand Central Station.
Go Google it now though, it's not that. Grand Central Terminal,
[3:03:05] Jesse Michels:
it doesn't
[3:03:05] Chris Bledsoe:
even sound as good.
[3:03:06] Jesse Michels:
Yeah,
[3:03:07] Chris Bledsoe:
it's always been named that according to this. Yeah.
So I don't know what that means, but it was really, it really opened my eyes to
how weird this world we live in really is.
How do you juggle, you know, a lot of these concepts might seem crazy to the
average person.
How do you juggle just facing, you know, relationships, issues, things in your
own life versus these kind of deeper celestial metaphysical truths?
Those two things seem kind of hard to juggle.
I was talking to a friend yesterday and he has all these teachers, you know,
kind of in the Eastern tradition. He's kind
[3:03:49] Jesse Michels:
of his
[3:03:49] Chris Bledsoe:
own mystic in a sense.
And I think I can say this actually, his name is Duncan Trussell.
[3:03:54] Jesse Michels:
And he's, you
[3:03:55] Chris Bledsoe:
know, I actually just met him. He's an amazing comedian,
[3:03:58] Jesse Michels:
but I
[3:03:58] Chris Bledsoe:
felt a kinship with him.
And he talked, he said, he said, he said, I don't know, he said his teachers all
said that, and these are like Eastern, you know, kind of Buddhists say that, you
know, they know that the celestial realm exists, but they ignore it because what
we need to do is here on earth, we have these
[3:04:16] Jesse Michels:
kind
[3:04:17] Chris Bledsoe:
of karmic path laid out in front of you.
So I'm sure a lot of people have this sort of escapist orientation towards this
subject where they say, oh, well, take me up on the craft,
[3:04:26] Jesse Michels:
you
[3:04:26] Chris Bledsoe:
know? So how do you reconcile those two things?
I don't, I mean, it's like, it's just, it's mind-bending, the whole thing.
I'm still grappling with that, you know, to this very day.
And I focus on, right now, my main focus is on the Rosetta Stone. Really?
Why is your focus on the Rosetta Stone?
Because I believe that I can find, I think I can get there.
I think, I know it's talking. I know it is.
I know it's talking multiple ways, not just telepathically, because that's hard
to prove or explain, but I'm sure it's talking through frequency, through the
light, pulses of light, with the right sensors, and even some sort of Morse code
or something. Multiple ways it's trying to communicate.
I've seen it, I know it, and I think one day we'll get there.
You think the Rosetta Stone is trying to communicate?
I think the Phenomenon is trying to talk to us, and to find that Rosetta Stone,
you know, that's
[3:05:45] Jesse Michels:
just the language. I
[3:05:46] Chris Bledsoe:
want to find the language of this. Of the beings.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[3:05:50] Jesse Michels:
Yeah,
[3:05:50] Chris Bledsoe:
and it's putting it out right now, it's talking.
We just got to study it, and I'm working on a way to do that.
Do you think their language is discoveries? Like the discoveries we make? Yeah.
What do you think the language is?
Do you think it's a literal symbols and hieroglyphics?
Because people say on the crafts that, you know, they see these sort of
hieroglyphics. Yeah. I've heard biblical texts and all on them too.
And you think we'll be able to decode this?
I think we can get actual real-time communication through the light and through
sensors. If we can gather enough data.
[3:06:28] Jesse Michels:
How would
[3:06:29] Chris Bledsoe:
we do this? Put it in a quantum AI computer. Mm.
And there's two of them that I could probably get access to.
So you're working on this?
[3:06:39] Jesse Michels:
I'm
[3:06:39] Chris Bledsoe:
working
[3:06:40] Jesse Michels:
on it,
[3:06:40] Chris Bledsoe:
yeah. Have you decoded anything yet? Well, we're working on it. That's all
[3:06:45] Jesse Michels:
I can say. Well, it
[3:06:45] Chris Bledsoe:
sounds like you have decoded a little
[3:06:46] Jesse Michels:
thing or two.
[3:06:47] Chris Bledsoe:
Some, some, yeah. Anything you can give us? Enough to get me going full-time.
I'm saying anything you can give us as far as, hints as to what you've decoded.
Well, just that I know it's there. And I think we'll be
[3:07:02] UNKNOWN:
able to do
[3:07:02] Chris Bledsoe:
that. And I think we'll get there in the next four or five years, maybe.
Maybe longer.
Do you think there's something special about the pyramids that we'll learn soon
or something? Because, I mean, one of your experiences was around the pyramids.
Obviously, Hathor, Egyptian goddess.
[3:07:18] Jesse Michels:
Well, I'm
[3:07:19] Chris Bledsoe:
hearing that next year that something might be revealed from there.
What will it be?
Well, without getting ahead of what I was told this week, I've been invited to
go down there.
And be involved in something that is going to release something that was hidden.
Interesting. And what? Something under the pyramids? Possibly.
Like a little energy grid thing? They didn't tell me that. Okay.
They just invited me to be a part.
And the Egyptian antiquities authorities are part of it. Fascinating.
Well, I just interviewed the guy that did the synthetic aperture radar Doppler
tomography scans.
[3:08:03] Jesse Michels:
Of
[3:08:03] Chris Bledsoe:
the structure under the Khafre chamber of the Giza pyramid.
[3:08:07] Jesse Michels:
I can't
[3:08:07] Chris Bledsoe:
say that's what it is.
I can just say I got a call from the right people that wants me to be a part
next year. Well, that's exciting. Yeah. Very interesting.
[3:08:17] Jesse Michels:
So
[3:08:17] Chris Bledsoe:
I think something's coming from there that's gonna be real interesting. Wow.
Like changing, thought changing. Wow. Yeah. Danny Jones, it was funny.
Danny Jones, I think, came into your interview with him, maybe a little
skeptical, but then he said, he saw an orb with you outside
[3:08:35] Jesse Michels:
of a
[3:08:35] Chris Bledsoe:
diner or something. Well, he called me. He's like, I want you on my show.
I'm like, Danny, I'd love to be on your show, but you gotta do something for me.
I'm gonna come a day or two early and I'm gonna make you a believer, not a
skeptic. Because our interview will go differently if you're a believer.
And he said, okay, okay.
So we flew down, my daughter and I and my wife, and we had dinner there in
Clearwater.
Went over to Indian Rocks Beach out on the beach and he had his assistant with
him with a camera.
And I said, well, let's watch out of the ocean because I can get it, it appears
up out of the ocean when I ask it.
It's just like out of the sky, it comes up out of the sea.
And suddenly here it came, two of them. Wow. And he filmed it, we all filmed it.
Was he freaking out? Yeah. Wow. Yeah. We did that last week in California. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. With some pretty amazing people. Wow.
He also, Danny said he, I think he cut a small part of your interview where you
talked about a neuralyzer, like some like machine that erased your memory after
seeing something. Yeah, I had to not talk about
[3:09:49] Jesse Michels:
that. You're not supposed to talk about

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[3:09:50] Chris Bledsoe:
that. But there is something like that that you experienced?
I saw the patterns on it. Really? Yeah.
So, I mean, that's freaky if the government has something that can do that.
Let's just say they can transmit chemicals through radio waves.
Do you think they can transmit thoughts through radio waves? Yeah.
That's kind of creepy. Well, then I get into all sorts of weird territory.
Like what is the whole UFO phenomenon?
Some paranormal plague from the thought transmission?
What if you were to see this alien appeared right here and you saw it and you
weren't supposed to?
What if it can shoot you with something that would erase your thoughts?
You never remember. So, you think the aliens can do that?
Or the beings can do that? You do. Why are you high conviction in that?
Seems like something where inherently if they can erase.
Well, I kind of learned some stuff on that and I saw the patterns on it. Well.
Yeah. And you think they're real patterns?
Well, it was the US Patent Office talking about it. Damn. It's kind of crazy.
It's
[3:11:03] Jesse Michels:
been hidden away. I don't think
[3:11:04] Chris Bledsoe:
it's not real. It was stuffed away somewhere. Yeah. Yeah. Dangerous
[3:11:08] Jesse Michels:
technology.
[3:11:08] Chris Bledsoe:
Mm.
So, they could shoot you with a chemical, drugs or anything from a hundred
yards. Think
[3:11:15] Jesse Michels:
about
[3:11:16] Chris Bledsoe:
that. A few people have come on my show saying things like that.
I just, I never know what to make of it.
Cause I'm like, it's just, I don't know. Just trust
[3:11:24] Jesse Michels:
me. I don't want that to not be true. Where it came
[3:11:25] Chris Bledsoe:
from was from our original conversations. Mm. So, with like Hal Poppenmeier? Mm.
Or with Tim Taylor? Yeah. Okay. Very interesting. Yeah.
Well, I can tell you the world is a weird place.
I mean, just the fact that you went to Zanesville, Ohio, did you learn anything
else about Townsend Brown while you were out there?
I never knew who he was until I got to Zanesville with Tim and then he began to
unfold who he was and how he was working with his daughter to finish a book
about her father. And I learned the whole story as much as he would tell me.
About his having visitors come and land.
Did Tim Taylor believe that Townsend Brown made real anti-gravity breakthroughs
as a scientist?
I can't tell you that he believed that or not, but he felt it strong enough that
he was, yeah. I think he, I'm speculating. Sure. Yeah.
Have you heard other stories of experiencers being shown a piece of metal and
basically evaluated to, you know, to see how they reacted?
To see how they react to the metal?
Yeah, he told me that we're only, he'd only ever seen two other reactions.
Did he mention who reacted
[3:12:47] Jesse Michels:
to the metal? He
[3:12:48] Chris Bledsoe:
didn't say. He said, but it was nothing like what I saw here. Yeah.
Well, you know, there's a story of Wernher von Braun showing Uri Geller a piece
of metal. Right. And he says, that's not from
[3:12:58] Jesse Michels:
here. Wernher von Braun takes me into his personal office.
There is a safe in the office. He opens the safe. I see a piece of metal.
I've never seen such a color. Pulls it out. It's not heavy.
Says, Uri, touch this. Tell me what you feel now.
I put my hand on it and I say, Wernher, this is not from here.
He says, you're right. This is a piece of a UFO that crashed on our planet.
You know, I'm mind blown because as a child, I used to sneak into movie theaters
in Tel Aviv to see films on extraterrestrial life.
And this is coming from the mouth of Wernher von Braun.
[3:13:33] Chris Bledsoe:
You're
[3:13:33] Jesse Michels:
shot at that.
[3:13:34] Chris Bledsoe:
Exactly. I saw some things about this metal.
In fact, I had a lot of photos of it I had to delete.
They were classified, right?
But I've seen some of it in real time on a litch on the microscope.
And what I saw, there were different types. But it was moving.
The one piece, I have a picture, where it looks like a universe swirling around
and around with all the galaxies and stuff inside.
That's what the metal, the piece from Zanesville, cut that little sliver.
That's what it looked like. Actually. It was actually moving.
This other piece I saw was red. It appeared red.
But it meant thousands of little blocks, little square blocks, and they were
self-moving and stacking themselves. They were moving
[3:14:28] Jesse Michels:
in the material?
[3:14:29] Chris Bledsoe:
Well, they were slight replicating or something. What? They were moving
[3:14:32] Jesse Michels:
in the
[3:14:33] Chris Bledsoe:
material? Yeah, this material is like living material.
[3:14:35] Jesse Michels:
And this
[3:14:36] Chris Bledsoe:
is from Zanesville, or? Well, it was a piece I saw.
I assume it was from Zanesville.
The piece, not the real Zanesville, but Zanesville.
The red, I don't know where that came from, but the green, I'll show you the
green. What?
Yeah, I'll show you the, I don't have the video of it, but I have a snapshot of
it. I wanna see that. Yeah, I'll show it to you. That is wild. Yeah. Wow.
Moving like a universe swirling around and around.
And the elements in that metal, I was told it had 51 elements in it.
And the most classified, most, we can only blend, at that time, he told me about
15 elements. Humans could only figure out how to make 15 elements blend.
But this had 51. One of the elements was human DNA.
And he's like, how'd that get in there?
And plutonium, who puts plutonium in metal? Wait, plutonium?
Human DNA was in this metal? Yep.
[3:15:39] Jesse Michels:
And plutonium?
[3:15:40] Chris Bledsoe:
And plutonium?
[3:15:41] UNKNOWN:
Yep.
[3:15:43] Chris Bledsoe:
What? And he's like, how? How do they put human DNA in metal?
And then they figured out in zero gravity how to bond ceramic to metal.
And then they were able to put human DNA into the ceramic.
And now your hip joints and all that, they don't fail anymore.
Just all in our medical devices, nobody realizes it as NASA's.
Cause my understanding is most manufacturing and space initiatives haven't
succeeded.
Like there's a company called Maidens, and it was always this kind of academic
project and it never quite got off the ground.
But you could in zero G do all sorts of things that you can't on the ground.
Right. So, but you're saying there might be some secret stuff going on.
Oh, sure. Interesting. Absolutely.
But they were able to bond ceramic to the metal and human DNA into the ceramic.
But they couldn't do it.
Whoever did it, however it was done, we can't duplicate it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[3:16:45] Jesse Michels:
Wow. Well,
[3:16:54] Chris Bledsoe:
Chris, this is a blast, man. I
[3:16:55] Jesse Michels:
love
[3:16:56] Chris Bledsoe:
speaking to you.
And I think we could go on all day, but there's so many threads I feel like I
need to follow up on just from this conversation alone. So
[3:17:04] Jesse Michels:
we'll
[3:17:05] Chris Bledsoe:
have to run it back and maybe I can come to Fayetteville.
I would love for you to. That'd be a blast, man.
[3:17:10] Jesse Michels:
I appreciate
[3:17:11] Chris Bledsoe:
it. You should come. In fact, maybe we get you to the coast, like on the beach.
Yeah.
For a couple of three nights and we'll get a group there and blow your mind.
That sounds amazing. Yeah. Count me in. Absolutely.
Thank you for coming to Austin, Texas on such short notice.
And I know you travel a ton.
And so just coming out here for a day really means a lot to me.
Believe it or not, in the last three weeks, I left Fayetteville, North Carolina.
I went to Orange County, met with Sammy and a group of guys, and then went up to
Hollywood, met Margot Robbie and some other people.
Left there, went back to North Carolina. Dropped my wife off.
Flew back to New York, met some people there. Took a train down to DC.
Met a whole group of, met Anna and some others there.
Then came home one day and I'm back here.
So it's been just burning the road up for three or four weeks.
And that's why I called you last night. I was so exhausted. I'm like, I'm tired.
I'm beat, Jesse. So.
Or I'd have been here last night with you guys, going to dinner or sky watching
or something. Yeah, no. No worries. Well, this was, this was really fun.
And now we'll, we'll do it again and I'll come your way next
[3:18:27] Jesse Michels:
time. And that's a
[3:18:28] Chris Bledsoe:
crazy schedule for somebody who's already gone through all the stuff you've gone
through. So. Don't end here. It goes for the next 18 days.
I'm back to New York, to Pennsylvania, to DC, and then to Wilmington for the
World Forum. And yeah, I want to make sure I plug the World Forum.
[3:18:48] Jesse Michels:
Okay.
[3:18:49] Chris Bledsoe:
What is that? It's, it was created by McKill, Gorbachev back in the 90s.
In 95 to 2000, it was a five year event that ended up in New York City when they
dropped the ball. Bono was there, you two, they did the opening.
But it was the, the leaders of the world basically all came together to talk
about the Y2K, because they thought the world was in trouble, right?
We had to have a conversation.
And so now for the next five years, this year, until 2030, they're going to
convene the World Forum again and it'll be Abbey Love speaking, Dr.
Diana Hennessey-Powell, and there's about 30 or 40, 31 speakers we were going to
have it in DC at the Omni Shores this year, but because of the travel and the
flights and all, so we can make it to the next,' you the next himself.
gonna make it virtual this year and um i'll be speaking on there a time or two
but my big thing is on the 14th of the 15th 16th and 17th we're going to have a
group down on the beach at rightsville um about 40 of us doing a sky watch and
we're going to broadcast it through the world forum cool to the world yeah epic
all right we'll go check
[3:20:20] Jesse Michels:
that out
[3:20:21] Chris Bledsoe:
by ufo of god and um yeah keep keep checking out cool stuff that chris
[3:20:27] Jesse Michels:
does and i really
[3:20:27] Chris Bledsoe:
appreciate you being here
[3:20:28] Jesse Michels:
man
[3:20:28] Chris Bledsoe:
thank you jesse for having me it's
[3:20:30] Jesse Michels:
been
[3:20:30] Chris Bledsoe:
too long
[3:20:31] Jesse Michels:
it's been way too long
[3:20:32] Chris Bledsoe:
long time coming but you know what things happen in their time and i think there
is the questions and the conversation we had this time around is going to be you
know it's much better than maybe what would have been a year
[3:20:44] Jesse Michels:
and a half ago
[3:20:45] Chris Bledsoe:
absolutely i've learned a lot since then and i've learned that i don't know
anything right same with me man the deeper i get the more i'm confused yeah i
say it all the time the more i learn the less i know right well that's that's
literally true because
[3:21:00] Jesse Michels:
if

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[3:21:00] Chris Bledsoe:
you think of your knowledge base as say it's like a sphere um the sphere grows
and then the the questions are the space around the sphere right so the
questions are going to grow at an exponent of the sphere growing right and so
you the more you know the more you know you don't know right and so yeah i think
the most knowledgeable people i know are the most epistemically humble and
they're like i don't know
[3:21:29] Jesse Michels:
you know because he
[3:21:30] Chris Bledsoe:
just gets more and more confusing it does like i say there's no language for
this so
[3:21:35] Jesse Michels:
no
[3:21:35] Chris Bledsoe:
each step you got to come up with something different you know yes but it's like
if you if you're getting if you're going into kind of higher dimensional spaces
or like where more information you do just have to have uh a better sensor like
you
[3:21:52] Jesse Michels:
know you need that you
[3:21:52] Chris Bledsoe:
need to be able to audit yourself better so as long as you can do that i learned
that a long time ago you know just admit you don't know you know don't label
this thing and and i try not to and because i can't tell you a hundred percent
certain anything none of us can nobody can i can tell you It's magical, it's
been beautiful, and it's real.
And I'll leave it at that, and I can share it with others.
And if I can't, my children can. Yeah. They have it in them the same.
Do you think there have been any attempts to censor you on any other media or
podcast?
[3:22:35] Jesse Michels:
A
[3:22:35] Chris Bledsoe:
lot. So like how so? Well. And what's the motive?
And yeah, and what's an example and what's the motive?
I think that there's the narrative is it's dark and ugly and evil, leave it
alone. Yeah, but you have such a positive healing story. Well, and that's why.
And then, oh, they want it to be this like. Dark and ugly,
[3:22:59] Jesse Michels:
don't
[3:23:01] Chris Bledsoe:
mess with it.
We might lose control of the people if you mess, so they don't like me sharing
this
[3:23:06] Jesse Michels:
at
[3:23:06] Chris Bledsoe:
all. Mm, mm, it's very interesting.
[3:23:10] Jesse Michels:
I've
[3:23:10] Chris Bledsoe:
been told that a thousand times. Yeah.
[3:23:13] Jesse Michels:
I've
[3:23:14] Chris Bledsoe:
been told two or three times, you're doing disclosure. Yeah.
Don't do, we're gonna do, you're getting ahead of us. Yeah.
Any examples of censorship that you've like. Danny Jones. Really?
That video and a whole lot more.
Which, what did Danny, oh, Danny Jones is, the video's getting
[3:23:33] Jesse Michels:
throttled performance wise. Yeah, yeah,
[3:23:34] Chris Bledsoe:
yeah, that was censorship.
[3:23:36] Jesse Michels:
That
[3:23:36] Chris Bledsoe:
thing was going to 150,000 views a
[3:23:38] Jesse Michels:
day. What was it
[3:23:39] Chris Bledsoe:
specifically that you think got it knocked?
That was me mentioning about some technology at Mission Control. Okay, okay.
Okay. And I don't want to
[3:23:51] Jesse Michels:
say that again. Okay, sure, sure,
[3:23:52] Chris Bledsoe:
sure, sure, yeah, yeah, yeah. Got it, that's wild then. Yeah.
And that's crazy, you backtrack, you kind of, or back channeled and you figured
out that NASA was literally censoring.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[3:24:03] Jesse Michels:
Yeah.
[3:24:04] Chris Bledsoe:
Crazy. Well, Google or whoever's controlling that.
But they sent the word, that's what I was told.
There has to be a connection there. It was about a technology. Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I mean, Immaculate Constellation, which came out in the Shellenberger
testimony, this November 2024 hearing, Immaculate Constellation had like a
search spike when David Grush came out in, I think, August or September of 2023.
So it's like, how do you, you can't make that up. Right.
And if that's the case, that's like, you know. It's kind
[3:24:46] Jesse Michels:
of what happened. That's what happened with
[3:24:47] Chris Bledsoe:
me. Interesting. Yeah. Interesting.
Yeah, and then I think there's a manipulation of Google Trends because that
then, this guy, Rob Jones, who I've gotten to know a little better since then,
and seems very high trust, high credibility, he found the spike and then the
spike got deleted. Yeah.
So it's like, if you're telling me that Google doesn't have some sort of
backdoor around special access programs being named,
[3:25:16] Jesse Michels:
Yeah, yeah. They don't have a
[3:25:16] Chris Bledsoe:
connection with the DOD around that, you're
[3:25:19] Jesse Michels:
crazy.
[3:25:19] Chris Bledsoe:
Absolutely. You're the conspiracy theory. Like, come on.
Yeah, and it happens to me all the time. Yeah.
I would have sold twice as many books already, guarantee you.
They've cost me a lot of book sales because of shadow banning or, yeah.
Well, I think you're, I think it's piercing through.
I think, you know, a lot of people love your story and are reading your book,
And, you know, whatever censorship may or may not be occurring, I don't think
it's really, you know, hampering you in a serious way.
Well, we're pushing through. There you go. They can't keep the light out, right?
The light gets to cracks. Yeah. Well, that's this whole subject.
It's like, you know, don't take my, don't distrust everything I say or you say
or anybody
[3:26:12] Jesse Michels:
else.
[3:26:12] Chris Bledsoe:
But, like, the world is, I think, shifting in this sort
[3:26:15] Jesse Michels:
of
[3:26:15] Chris Bledsoe:
serious way. And, like, you know, I fundamentally believe that.
And I see it and I feel it. That's that new knowledge that's coming. Yes.
[3:26:25] Jesse Michels:
Well, on that
[3:26:26] Chris Bledsoe:
note, thank you so much, Chris. Thank you, brother. Cool. Absolutely. All right.

================================================================================
END OF TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================

SPEAKER STATISTICS:
----------------------------------------
  Chris Bledsoe:
    Words: 32,298 (96.4%)
    Turns: 370
  Jesse Michels:
    Words: 1,204 (3.6%)
    Turns: 357
  UNKNOWN:
    Words: 15 (0.0%)
    Turns: 12

----------------------------------------
Generated: 2026-01-13 13:07:52
Tier: PREMIUM
Freelance Transcription Service (FT Pipeline)