================================================================================
TRANSCRIPTION SUMMARY
Generated: 2025-12-12 15:22
================================================================================

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The executive summary of the provided transcript is as follows:

In this episode of Weaponized, George Knapp and Jeremy Corbell discuss recent developments regarding UFOs and related government activities. Following David Grush’s testimony a few weeks ago, significant progress has been made with hearings scheduled for July 26th where firsthand witnesses will testify. Senator Chuck Schumer introduced new legislation to the defense bill that could pressure unidentified flying object (UFO) holding companies into disclosure. Chris Sharp, editor of Liberation Times and a respected voice on UFO transparency, is mentioned as providing insightful analysis. The discussion highlights the ongoing mystery surrounding UFOs, with Knapp and Corbell emphasizing the importance of uncovering facts regardless of personal beliefs.

KEY TAKEAWAYS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. **Upcoming Hearing**: A hearing scheduled for July 26th will feature firsthand witnesses.
2. **Political Support**: Senator Schumer’s position is likely influenced by a supportive stance from others.
3. **David Grush Testimony**: His recent testimony has significantly impacted legislative steps in both the Senate and House.
4. **Technological Implications**: Advanced technologies, possibly related to climate change solutions, are involved in discussions.
5. **New Legislation**: Senator Schumer introduced new defense bill language targeting companies allegedly operating off-world craft.

CHAPTER BREAKDOWN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[00:00] Hearing Scheduled: Direct Testimonies Revealed
[03:00] Chris Sharp: Uncovering UFO Transparency
[06:02] UAP Review Board Amendment Introduced
[09:03] Chapter Title: Knowledge-Backed Legislation
[12:04] Ripple Effect: Waking Up to Truth
[15:05] Senate Support Builds
[18:10] Chapter Title: Rising Political Suspicion and Potential Legislation
[21:10] Seeking Advice and Assessing Risks
[24:13] Chapter Title: Revisiting Financial Incentives
[27:15] Proving Extraterrestrial Origin
[30:16] Vice President Rejection and Lockheed's Interest
[33:18] Update on Reported Incidents: Flare Signals Analyzed
[36:24] Journalistic Constraints and Ethics
[39:30] Conclusion: Seeking the Truth
[42:31] Pilot Perspectives on UFO Encounters
[45:33] Wilson-Davis Memo: Backstory
[48:38] Chapter Title: Optimistic Expectations for Hearings
[51:39] Chapter Title: Seamless and Robust Design Progression
[54:42] Bob's Hilarious Rejection

================================================================================
FULL TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================
Last episode of Weaponized, we heard directly from Tim Burchett.  There was a lot that he said, but there was a lot that we could not say.  Now, some of that was put out.  July 26th, we'll have a hearing.  We'll hear directly from firsthand witnesses.  Senator Schumer is a pretty crafty politician.  He's not going to stick his neck out if he doesn't have some kind of a support  for taking this sort of a position.  We all have to believe that the testimony of David Grush that came out a few weeks ago,  our friend David, has played a major role in the steps that have been taken  both in the Senate and in the House.  You said you've been in contact with, say, the Lockheeds of the world.  You know, we're talking about technologies that could eradicate some of the damage  caused by climate change, for example, which is a huge, huge political issue right now.  Now, this news tonight from Senator Schumer introducing new legislation.  Things are happening fast.  Again, if you're a skeptic or a believer,  it really doesn't matter.  Even if you're a skeptic, it's still interesting.  We should get to find out what's actually known and what the government is up to,  even if you don't believe in UFOs.  So it's going to be interesting.  UFOs are not a matter of belief.  We're past that.  We know it's true.  There's machines that outpace ours that are in the sky.  We don't know where they're from.  The witnesses are kind of like Mark Zuckerberg.  They're like, send me location.  Secrets, cover ups and strange phenomena, UFOs and ideas that challenge reality itself.  All these mysteries, all this time.  Are we ever going to get to the bottom of these?  My name is George Knapp.  I dig into news stories that others can't or won't.  I'm Jeremy Corbell.  And for some reason, people tell me things they probably shouldn't.  And this is Weaponized.  Welcome back.  This is Weaponized.  And as you know, we've been telling you for a while now about things that were in the works in the shadows in the past few days.  Wow.  It's come spilling out following the blockbuster testimony.  Wow.  The testimony from career intelligence officer David Grosh a few weeks ago.  Bombs have been dropping.  Heads are exploding.  The minds of hardcore debunker types have melted down into tiny puddles of sad, salty tears.  Bless their little hearts.  Jeremy, there's so much to talk about.  Let's start with Chuck Schumer and this big drop a few days ago about an amendment to the defense bill.  Yeah, man.  This is awesome, powerful, new language.  That really it puts the screws on, you know, some of these holding companies that allegedly have off-world craft not made here on Earth.  And if that's the case, man, they are putting the screws to these companies being like, you best be telling us.  And hopefully this becomes law.  There have been some really great voices that have kind of, you know, piped up about this.  One of them is Chris Sharp.  He dropped this great article.  Super informed.  I did a quote for it.  Because he was pushing me to get more information for him.  Man, super informed article.  Are we going to go to talk to Chris?  Let's get him.  Because honestly, I've respected the way that he's handled some of these more difficult cases.  And he's a great resource.  Let's get him right now.  Chris Sharp is the editor, publisher, writer of Liberation Times.  He's been covering the UFO issue, UFO transparency action in Washington in ways that major mainstream American media just have never seen before.  So, Chris, we have Chris.  Chris, great to see you, man.  Great reporting.  Thank you for having me, my friend.  It's an honor to finally appear on Webinize with both you and George, who are both heroes of mine and great friends as well.  So, thank you.  Chris, do you find it amazing that we Americans, the news consumers in our country, have to rely on you and the excellent job you do for information about what's going on in the world?  And what do you want about UAP?  Because our mainstream media, even after all that has happened, still don't really cover it.  Or when they do, they cover it reluctantly.  Yes, that's correct.  And it's very, very disappointing to see, unfortunately.  And I think the stigma and taboo of this topic is really, really unfortunate.  And I think what is more unfortunate is the fact that journalists, they no longer have this fearlessness.  Of actually just reporting the news and investigating on what's actually going on.  And it's really sad.  I wish we could go back to the 1970s sometimes and that era of reporting, you know, when you had real journalists really going after these types of stories.  But the beauty of now, today, the world that we live in, is that we can have independent publications such as Liberation Times, independent journalists, you know, such as what you guys are doing on Webinize, for instance.  You know, going after these cases and just reporting the news, basically investigating what's going on.  And I really feel that the independent journalists reporting on this topic are really, really going to help us push through and hopefully get some transparency in the years to come in relation to this really vitally important topic.  Of course, some bombs were dropped in the last couple of days because we all talk off the air, off the record.  You and I and Jeremy keep in touch.  We've known a lot of this stuff was coming.  But even we were surprised by some of the things that have happened.  And reluctantly, even the New York Times had to report on this bombshell dropped by Senator Schumer within the last two days.  Can you give us a recap, your take on that story, what it means to this topic?  It is a huge story, an absolute mammoth of a story.  Because what was previously relegated to the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense,  or Security and Intelligence, is now at the desk of the highest office in the land, that of the President of the United States.  So this is an absolutely huge story.  And what it is, it's a new amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act by, you know, it's by the most powerful person in the Senate.  It's by Chuck Schumer, who's the leader of the Senate from the Democrats.  And he's inserted this huge amendment, basically, which provides a UAP review board,  which will basically look to release UAP reports going back decades.  But not only that, it would also look to potentially, potentially release UAP materials,  which could also mean craft.  And let's say biochemicals.  Biological specimens as well, relating to UAP, which are non-human in nature.  And that is just explosive because we know there is already a version of the Intelligence Authorization Act  and the National Defense Authorization Act, which provides an amnesty period of 60 days  for basically the likes of Lockheed Martin to actually come clean about what they have.  Now, this new amendment by Chuck Schumer,  is a follow on in a way from that because it says that if any UAP materials,  you know, or biological specimens are discovered,  then the U.S. government will possess those materials.  So Lockheed Martin, look, if they have these materials, they'll have to surrender them to the U.S. government.  And it looks like there's a real plan coming together now about how we get this stuff out and release it to the U.S. public.  Jeremy, you want to jump in?  I mean, that's a lot to unpack right there.  I know we both have a lot of questions.  You want to jump in there?  Yeah, for sure.  So, Chris, first of all, I got to congratulate you.  I do contribute to your articles because you call me with a lot of questions,  but you are so obsessed with perfect accuracy and you force me to make calls to make sure that what you're doing is correct.  So you actually are breaking news in this last story you wrote that people I don't think have really admired yet.  But I think they will.  Look, this new legislation is making a powerful move to expose the issue of illegal UAP technological holdings.  Like, that's what this legislation is doing.  George and I got a preview of it.  Just put it that way.  But it has to be put into law.  But that's what it's trying to do.  So we should be asking ourselves, in my opinion, we should be asking ourselves what the authors of this amendment know.  I mean, this is like, what do they know?  What do they know to try to put this into law?  You don't aim to push this kind of language into law unless you have direct knowledge of illegal UAP holding facilities and programs backed up by folks directly and currently working on these UAP programs and technologies and projects.  So I happen to know that this language was written with purpose and intent  and that this language was written from a place of knowledge.  They wouldn't be putting it into law if they couldn't back it up.  Does that make sense to you?  Correct.  Correct.  And also, thank you so much for your contribution, Jeremy.  I mean, anything reported in Liberation Times, we ensure that we are correct as possible because the topic of UAP, there is so much stigma surrounding it.  So when you're reporting information, you have to ensure that it's accurate.  And that's important.  And look, if the circumstances change, you update that article as well to ensure that you're keeping your readers informed, basically, of what the latest is.  You don't just leave it out there.  You make sure that everything you report on, if there is an update, new information provided, you put it out there.  There is such a weight of responsibility that I feel when I'm reporting on these articles.  And yes, I feel that there is some smoking gun evidence of UAP.  I feel that UAP potentially being of either unknown origin, albeit of a non-prosaic origin, let's say, or non-human origin that they're able to determine.  And I would just put this out there.  I would love to know your opinion.  I've not asked you about this before, Jeremy.  But we know that there has been some coordination in terms of getting this new amendment out there.  With the White House and National Security Council as well.  So following the February shoot downs that occurred over North America, there was a rumor which was going around about a very, very senior member of, let's say, the U.S. Armed Forces who approached a White House staff member, let's say, and spilled the beans.  About legacy programs and stated that the U.S. Air Force is lying when it comes down to the topic of UAP.  And then we had the White House set up its own kind of task force all of a sudden to look into UAP.  And that kind of disappeared.  And now we know that this bombshell language, which basically asserts, asserts that there are non-human entities, or implies that at least, that now that's come from, in part, from the White House.  The National Security Council.  And like you said, I just don't think that came from nowhere.  And I do get the feeling that there has been a series of events that have led to this place that we are at now.  Well, first of all, we're interviewing you.  You're not interviewing us.  Nice try, though.  I'm going to decline to answer any further.  But it's really interesting, the things that you're saying.  And I think that you are seeing a ripple effect, not just of public interest.  But of people waking up.  To the idea of, holy shit.  This is not only true, but I've just been shown evidence of it.  So what you're getting is you're getting people being exposed to information, footage, documents inside of government, even all the way up into the White House, that they haven't seen before.  And so, you know, look, what do people hate more than anything?  It's being lied to.  And as George will tell you, after, you know, almost 40 years of reporting on this.  We've been lied to.  And so this is where people's hubris and egos are very helpful to the disclosure efforts about this topic, whatever it might be.  So that's all I can.  That's all I really want to say about that.  I would jump in this way.  Senator Schumer is a pretty crafty politician.  He's not going to stick his neck out if he doesn't have some kind of support for taking this sort of a position.  We all have to believe that the testimony of David Grush.  That came out a few weeks ago.  Our friend David has played a major role in the steps that have been taken both in the Senate and in the House in pushing this ball down the field.  Grush is not alone, however, in the statements that was released by Schumer's office.  He made it clear that they have heard from a bunch of people, not just Grush, but a whole bunch of people who've come out offering information about these legacy UFO programs.  And I will tell you this, that it's not the first time that Senator.  The senator has heard this.  My friend, the late Senator Harry Reid, talked to Schumer, who was his protege.  You might have seen one of the tweets that Schumer put out after he dropped this bombshell amendment.  He paid homage to the legacy of his friend, Senator Reid, who died more than a year ago.  What we're seeing unfolding here now, all these different elements in different places can largely be tracked back to the work that Senator Reid started here in Las Vegas.  More than two decades ago.  You know, I had a secret private conversation with him going for more than 30 years about his interest in UFOs.  And I helped fan those flames for a long time.  And I asked him flat out who among the Senate colleagues he had talked to about this issue.  And Schumer was one of them.  Schumer was his right hand man.  Schumer learned the job of being how to be a majority leader from his mentor, Harry Reid.  And they did talk about UFOs.  I would also say there are others.  Current sitting members.  Members of the Senate who also talked to Senator Reid before he died and after that New York Times story came out in December of 2017.  One of those was a presidential candidate, Cory Booker.  So there are a lot of members of the Senate who have not come forward on this yet.  Senator Gillibrand, Senator Rubio have been out in front on it.  But there are other members who have an interest in it.  And I think they are lending this support to this legislation.  But you can bet that Senator Schumer has his ducks in a row.  Before he makes an amendment that he knew would make as big a bombshell impact as this one did.  Yeah.  I think he's extremely well informed at this point.  And I know that there's a big learning curve, as you have always said, George.  But I'd love to hear what you think about that, Chris.  Yes.  So earlier this year, I was informed that there's a whole host of committees both in the Senate and in the House that are interested.  They're interested in the UAP topic and which may hold hearings.  So not just the Intel and Armed Services Committees, other committees.  And one of the committees that was mentioned to me was the Homeland Security Committee in the Senate.  And it just so happens in this new legislation that that committee is going to pay a major role in terms of oversight in this new UAP review board.  So I think we can expect a whole lot more.  There are a bunch of other senators and representatives who are bursting to speak about this.  And I think that our friend Chuck Schumer has just set the bar now and provided cover for those other politicians to actually start talking about this publicly.  There's some specific things we should probably touch on.  The creation of a UFO panel is similar to the JFK assassination record.  Yes.  The JFK assassination records board, nine-member panel to be named by the president and others.  And, of course, that raises a lot of eyebrows because the JFK panel, you know, to the hardcore JFA conspiracy folks, they're not happy with it because after 60-plus years, 60 or so years, we still don't have all those records.  They still have not been released.  And I can see UFO people who are inclined to believe in conspiracies worried that a panel on UFO disclosure might do the same thing.  And still classify things that the public has a right to know.  What do you think?  Well, I would say that this new amendment is a major push forward.  And look, for the last three or four years now, we've had multiple UAP, you know, amendments and language added to both the Intelligence Authorization Act and the National Defense Authorization Act.  So I don't, you know, yeah, I think this is a major step in the right direction.  But I would also say that I would also expect more to follow as well.  And we also know that this is in conjunction with the other language out there which provides amnesty to basically defense contractors like Lockheed Martin.  So I think it works in tandem with other legislation that can come forward.  And I think that we can expect more legislation to come forward, whether it be in this National Defense Authorization Act or perhaps next year.  I think they've really, really, they smell something's not up now.  And they feel that I think being a US politician at the moment, I feel that they feel that they're being lied to.  This is something that's happening to this day under their noses.  And that it could be world changing.  You know, not just only learning that we're not alone, but also the breakthrough technologies that we could learn of and we can develop.  If we open this up to a wide range of people.  If we open this up to a wide range of engineers and scientists, you know, we're talking about technologies that could eradicate some of the damage caused by climate change, for example, which is a huge, huge political issue right now.  And I would just say that, yes, I mean, JFK, I think making that kind of comparison.  I mean, that happened a long time ago.  And you don't really have the same momentum regarding transparency in that case.  Amongst key politicians, as you do with the UAP topic, there is a broad bipartisan coalition in both the House and the Senate to get this through.  So I feel that the UAP topic has a lot more momentum, has a lot more support and bipartisan support as well, you know, within US politics.  So I think really that people that are worried about that, I really, I really would ask them not to be worried.  And I think that we're making major, major steps in the right direction.  Here's the other part of it that jumps out at me is the use of eminent domain concept in American law.  I don't know if you have something similar in the UK.  Use of eminent domain to claim government ownership of any non-human tech, ET tech, saucers, craft, materials, bodies.  It belongs to the government if this becomes law.  And say, let's just pull a name out of a hat.  Yeah.  Lockheed has saucers stashed in a hangar somewhere.  They have to give them up.  They have to give them to the US government.  Even if it was acquired by private interests, even if it was on private land, I wonder if that applies to, for example, people who have gone out to the Roswell crash site and found bits and pieces of strange material.  Or some of the metamaterial samples that people like Jacques Vallee and Gary Nolan say they've been testing.  Then they all have to cough it up.  Would Bob Lazar have to find the non-existent pieces of 115 and turn them in?  It presents some interesting questions for people and companies who may have this material.  Yes.  So, I mean, the legislation just uses the term persons.  So, that could refer to individuals and organizations.  So, I think it may do.  And I think it would be good advice for such people if they are confused or worried to seek advice.  Or seek legal counsel, basically, to see what the repercussions could be if they do hold on to such material after the amnesty period.  And also, I'd say this as well.  I'd say that if Lockheed Martin does...  And I've been liaising with the Lockheed Martin spokesperson for the last two weeks or so.  Because if they do have an illegal UAP program, then that would be a material risk.  And if there are material risks that you can disclose, you have to disclose that under SEC law.  You have to disclose that to your shareholders.  Because your shareholders need to know if you've got a really huge material risk that could mean that your shares sink, basically, and you lose a lot of money.  So, there's lots of repercussions around this for the likes of Lockheed and also in terms of competitors as well.  If they have an unfair advantage, that's huge as well.  So, I think there's a lot of fine detail that needs to go over, that we need to go over as well.  And I think that needs to be included within the legislation, such as compensation.  I mean, a lot of people like to throw Lockheed under the bus, and maybe rightfully so.  But it's also a fundamental pillar of the Western defenses, basically.  Not just for the United States, but for the United Kingdom as well.  If Lockheed Martin were to fall down...  And cease to become a functioning organization, that has major defense repercussions that will harm a lot of us.  So, I feel that there needs to be a way to do this so that you don't sink aerospace corporations.  And also, I think as well, if the US government is going to take possession of such craft, what do they do then?  Is there then like a tender process or something?  Whereby other defense contractors get in on it?  Is there an opportunity to gain access to such craft?  Does Elon Musk get an opportunity to study it under SpaceX or something like that?  I think that would be really, really interesting to know what the government does from there.  Because you can't just leave it locked away in government.  You would have to ensure that there's a huge push to actually study these crafts.  Yeah, I mean, clearly this legislation is focused on defense contractors.  I mean, clearly there's something that's known.  And they're trying to force it out.  The eminent domain clause, my buddy said, was especially deadly.  And I'm like, why?  Because there's really no way out of that other than straight up fraud.  And I think it's true too.  And Chris, you've really, really digested the information that once the legislation is passed,  there'll be a financial incentive for insiders to kind of blow the whistle because they're entitled to like 10% of the recovered fraudulent sum.  Is that correct?  Is that in the legislation?  I need to have a look at that again, just to confirm.  It has been said to me that there is a financial incentive.  I need to have a look at that again.  Would 10% even be enough in terms of this, especially if it got taken away from them?  You can imagine shareholders discovering that Lockheed had craft of non-human origin, breakthrough technologies.  The shares would go up by such an amount.  It would be amazing for Lockheed, you know.  But then all of a sudden you find out that Lockheed lose the craft and then the stock sinks.  They could lose a lot of money for Lockheed.  I noticed something in the legislation too that was extremely powerful to me, which was they were creating definitions.  And this is something I know you've been personally on the hunt for for a long time.  You're trying to use the war of the words here.  And can you explain to us what you've been on the hunt for?  Because I noticed they said, you know, unknown origin.  And it's like as if they had to define that in the legislation.  Why do you think that is?  And what have you been on to when you have been speaking with, I know, I think you've been writing to Susan Goh.  So tell me that little battle, would you?  Yes.  So what happened was that when the David Grush story broke, the DOD's line was that the Arrow hasn't found any programs, let's say,  which whistleblowers have brought forward.  To it that found any materials of extraterrestrial nature.  So I went back to Susan Goh because David Grush specifically mentioned non-human intelligence.  So I said, what about non-human intelligence?  She said extraterrestrial.  But do you also mean non-human intelligence?  And she failed to get back to me.  And I said, look, if you can't get back to me, I'm just going to say you can't deny it.  She didn't get back to me.  So I reported it.  Then the Pentagon had a panic.  And then they came back to me and said, extraterrestrial also means non-human as well.  So I was like, OK.  Because they also said that it was verifiable information.  So the Arrow had found no information and verified zero information relating to materials of extraterrestrial origin.  So that could mean that the Arrow found non-prosaic materials.  That may have suspected being non-human.  However, they haven't verified it yet to actually independently say, yes, it is extraterrestrial or non-human in nature.  So I instead posed the question, have you found anything of unknown origin?  Because that means that you may be going through the process of verifying whether it is non-human intelligence.  So I'm yet to get an answer yet.  But hopefully me and Sue can work something out on that one.  It was just great.  It was in that legislation, definitions.  It was.  It was in that legislation.  And it was a surprise to see it there.  But I think they were right on the money there as well, including that definition.  Because, I mean, this is the thing.  Like, how do you prove that it's definitively extraterrestrial, for example, you know?  You'd have to prove that it came from X planet.  And you don't know what the composition of that planet is and the materials and stuff like that.  So how would you, could you ever determine it 100%?  Or, you know, they would probably find loopholes as well for non-human origin of how you could definitively prove it was non-human origin.  So I feel that unknown origin is a really, really important term.  I can imagine what a tough time it is for the debunkers who have been saying for a long time now, this whole momentum, seeming momentum for UFO disclosure is really the creation of a small group of UFO believers who somehow convinced Congress,  and congressional staff about this nonsense.  It's all made up.  It's going to be a little bit tougher for those folks to maintain that position, I think, going forward.  I also think it's going to be tougher for people who proclaim their belief in transparency who obviously are not working for transparency.  They're working completely the opposite of that.  And then I wonder about the position of these, those companies that may have possession of this material.  You said you've been in contact with, say, the Lockheeds.  You said you've been in contact with them for decades.  I can imagine they feel they've done their country a favor by taking this stuff, storing it, trying to study it and figure it out for decades, keeping it off the books, keeping the public uninformed.  And now they're being called to task to cough it up.  If I were Lockheed and I had flying saucers and this amazing technology, I wouldn't want to give it up.  And I wonder, do you get any sense that they are fighting back?  That they will use their considerable influence to do that?  Or do they try to derail this legislation before it becomes law?  Yeah, absolutely.  Very, very good points made there.  And I'd point out that the Senate Democrats put out a statement saying senators, congressmen, committees and staff began to pursue the issue and uncovered a vast web of individuals and groups of ideas and stories to share.  While these stories have varying levels of credibility, the sheer number of varieties led to some in Congress to believe that the executive branch was concealing important information.  And they also said that the Senate Democrats were trying to get information regarding UAPs over broad periods of time.  So this was not a small group that some people like to suggest.  It's a vast number of people who are all saying broadly the same thing.  So that's very important.  And you pointed out Lockheed, absolutely correct.  And Michael Shellenberg, a great journalist, he was reporting that a major defense contractor.  I think that is Lockheed.  A vice president was basically saying to the US military, look, we need to open up these programs because we're not making a lot of effort.  In terms of discovering how these craft work.  We need to open these up to a broader range of like engineers and scientists.  And that vice president who asked that question of the US military was greeted hostily from my understanding.  And he was told, no, you can't do that.  So I think to some extent it is in Lockheed's interest to get this opened up to certain extent.  Because at the moment, you know, there's not a lot of scientists and engineers out there.  There's not a lot of engineers working on this.  Look, if you've done drugs or something like that, and you're a scientist and an engineer, there is no way you're going to get access to these.  And I can tell you that a lot of the best scientists and engineers out there have probably done drugs in their lives.  I mean, we're talking about out of the box thinkers here, you know, a lot of the best scientists and engineers are.  And they wouldn't be able to get access to these sorts of programs because of that reason.  So I think that's a really important aspect to it.  But I think like the US government, you know, it's not a simple answer.  There may be varying degrees to this.  There may be some within defense contractors that want to get this information out and others that are not so sure.  So I think it might be a mixed bag.  And I don't really have enough of an understanding of how the internal dynamics are working in relation to this.  Hey, Chris, George, I just want to know before you go here, are you excited?  We have a date. It's been leaked, not by me.  The 26th, not by me or George, but it's been leaked.  This is the 26th is the date for the hearings.  Are you guys excited about what's going to happen?  What is going to happen?  Who's going to testify, Chris?  Who's going to testify?  I really have no idea.  I really have no idea.  I'm just really excited like the rest of you.  I'm planning to get some popcorn, get a beer and just enjoy the spectacle.  Because if there's anything I know, it's that this will be a spectacle because we're not going to have questioning of bureaucrats who are going to toe the party line.  We're going to have direct witnesses.  You can actually share what they know about UAP to the U.S. public.  And I think we can expect some fireworks.  I really do.  All the best hearings throughout U.S. history have been spectacles.  And I think we deserve one on UAP, don't you?  Yeah.  One last point to raise with you, Chris, before you go.  And that's about 29 Palms.  So Jeremy and I broke out this story.  We pursued it because of these U.S. Marines who were witnesses to an event,  who told us that they saw a craft.  And we know that this happened at a base where flares are regularly used in training.  Some of our witnesses, these U.S. Marines, work extensively with flares themselves.  And they told us that they thought what they saw in the sky was not from flares.  We've now seen a release from the Pentagon, 126 photos.  Presumably they're all of this one flare episode.  And it's sort of been generally described as debunked.  This case.  You tell us what you learned, what information you were able to get out of the Pentagon,  and what you think about where this has gone.  Yeah, absolutely.  So, I mean, at the time, we reported the information that we were aware of.  Then obviously afterwards, more information has now come out.  So we provided an update reporting that new information.  I would say that one of the things that did stand out was two flares being shot up,  which was described by the Marines.  And then when those two flares are shot up, you can kind of like see some smoke trails,  which look like they may have been from flares.  But look, nothing is conclusive, I don't think.  I mean, you can say that it may be likely that it's flares.  You can't say 100% that it was flares.  And I can't report that either.  And it's never straightforward with these cases.  And also, I'd point out as well that a lot of the Marines did say they saw a craft.  They didn't say, oh, we just saw lights in the sky, could have been flares.  No.  They actually say that they saw the outline of a craft.  So when you see an outline of a craft, of a potential craft, let's say, in one of the photos,  that's not just captured in the photo.  It was seen by Marines as well.  And I don't really think that's been sufficiently explained,  how the Marines saw the outline of what they think was a craft.  And all I would say is I just welcome more information.  If anyone else is able to look further into this and find out why that might be,  I think that'd be fantastic, especially for the Marines.  And they've done a really brave thing.  And so actually speaking out, they did the right thing,  because they weren't getting the answers from the higher ups.  So you guys did the groundwork for them.  And I'm just hoping that we can get more answers for them  in terms of some of the lingering questions.  When did they tell you about the 126 photos of flares?  Did they say when those flares had been recorded, when the photos were taken?  Where exactly they were?  Did you get metadata with those photos, or do you know?  No.  From my understanding, there's no metadata.  So again, this is why it's so annoying doing these stories sometimes,  because you can never conclusively say one way or the other sometimes.  I don't know how anyone could say, oh, it's 100% debunked,  because that's not how life works sometimes.  I mean, in terms of an investigation,  especially when you don't have full access to the files and records  and anything else relating to this,  if you don't have all the information in front of you which has been verified,  you're never going to get resolution.  And that's just really, really annoying not to be in that situation.  I would love to say, look, it's conclusively flares.  We know it 100% debunked.  But look, the truth doesn't work like that sometimes.  There's varying explanations.  There's subtleties involved.  This is how life works.  It's complicated.  There's no simple answer to these things sometimes.  So I mean, personally, I think there is a body of weight to suggest these may have been flares.  But again, I just can't conclusively say if they were or not.  And all I can do as a journalist is I can only report the news.  I can report that this new information has come out.  Yes, it does look compelling to a certain extent.  However, the Marines don't feel this is conclusive.  So that's all I can do as a reporter.  And I can only, to a certain extent, insert my own opinion into the stories.  And that's where I find myself.  And I appreciated the way that you covered it because a lot of people,  they just fold like cheap suits because of public pressure on Twitter and all that.  The idea is to solve the case.  I don't even know why people would write the word debunked.  The idea is to solve it.  And from the very beginning, we're seeking answers to the nature of it.  We're reporting what we're being told the best we can.  People are arguing, well, why did it take you two years?  You should have known there's a training event.  I'm going to say one last time.  It was over two months of training.  If you've ever actually spoken to anybody there,  they'll tell you that, that there's constant training exercises.  A lot of that footage that they show is definitely from the 20th,  was also on the 16th, was put up.  Michael, the magician behind the recordings here,  was able to find that on the 20th.  It's on the website.  When you got information like that,  you can't just decide that you know what's going on.  You've got to go further.  You've got to go deeper.  And that's annoying to people.  So I've been going to the Marines and I've been showing them  and going through them and recording with them,  saying, what do you think of this?  What do you think of that?  Does this make sense?  And across the board, there's an openness to solving the case.  They want to solve it.  But across the board, they feel that they know what they saw.  I'll read you one quick quote, a direct response to that.  In all those footage, all those images, George,  there was one image.  One image that they're saying is these flares with the smoke.  Cool, man.  Let's solve the case.  But here's one of the Marines that I showed it to you.  This is what he said.  He goes, we were not briefed beforehand by any higher ups  about any training going on at the time.  We were not offered an explanation afterwards either.  I just know we had photos.  We had photos showing a shape.  And other Marines said they could see a shape with their own eyes.  I basically said, honestly, I'm 60-40 after these images have come out,  60% being that they aren't flares.  And I think that comes from being there and seeing it  and being like artillerymen, being like, I know what flares are like.  So look, that's the conflict.  That's the divide.  And I'm not going to just, you know,  say something is right if I don't know for sure.  And people can disapprove of that type of investigatory effort.  But it's an investigatory effort.  And I'm just going to keep going after it.  Again, I'm open to it.  I want to solve it.  But the words people use like concede or another word is debunked.  No, man.  This has always been about finding out the truth.  And so let's find out the truth, you know?  Chris, thanks so much.  We love the Liberation Times.  Can't wait to talk to you again and are so glad that you're on top of this story.  Oh, thank you.  Thank you so much for having me, guys.  I'm a huge fan of Weaponize.  Brilliant.  Keep up what you're doing.  Talk to you later.  For sure.  We'll do our best.  Nice to see you, man.  See you.  Thank you.  Take care.  Man, that was great to talk with Chris.  I always love his perspective.  He is so thoughtful.  He's fair.  He's balanced.  He wants to know the truth.  He really digs deep.  When he does his Liberation Times articles, I honestly, anybody who is interested in kind  of learning that, support what Chris is doing because we need a man.  We need a journalist like that who's independent, who's not one of these mainstream organizations  where they get blocked from doing stories.  That's happened to a bunch of friends of mine.  So I really appreciate that he talked to us today.  I want to talk about hearings.  I am so excited.  The behind the scenes stuff that's been going on.  You know, George, man, we've been working our butts off.  Yeah.  So, you know, last episode.  Weaponized.  We heard directly from Tim Burchett, a congressman from Tennessee who's been directly involved  in this.  There was a lot that he said, but there was a lot that we could not say about when the  hearing was going to happen, who the witnesses might be.  Now, some of that was put out, was leaked.  Not by us.  July 26th, this House subcommittee, a subcommittee of the Oversight Committee, will have a hearing.  We'll hear directly from firsthand witnesses.  Congressman Burchett represented us.  Representative Luna of Florida, I think, will be co-chair of the subcommittee.  But we were told that it would be bipartisan, that there'll be a Democrat on the committee  to ask questions.  How much do we want to say about what we know about that hearing?  What's going to happen?  Yeah, it's still a little bit of a dance.  I mean, I'm kind of sworn to secrecy and trying to help facilitate this right from the witnesses.  But the exact date is out.  It's the 26th.  You know, unless there's some atomic, you know, nondisclosure bomb that goes off like  we're set for that.  I mean, I can tell you.  I can tell you that we have we have a few witnesses that are really important to go  on record.  But I think it's going to be really well done, George, like when people learn the subcommittee  from oversight, that this is being done with and they understand the numerous people from  both sides of the aisle that are going to be there.  It's going to be truly bipartisan.  That's that's the promise that's been made even to the witnesses.  The people speaking, you know, we were going to play a little a little role in that.  And at this point, we'll see how this goes.  But the role we can play is we can submit a pretty powerful statement that I think is  going to be, you know, take it seriously.  And then we're going to hear from people and the people I would like to hear from.  So let's just go this way.  I would love to hear from David Grush, unhinged, unchained.  Ask David Grush some really interesting questions.  You know, I'd love to hear directly from a couple of pilots, you know, people that  might have like, I don't know, engaged a UFO or been part of squadrons that saw these things  all the time.  That would be awesome.  I mean, I also think it would be awesome to hear from from Lazar.  There's a funny story about that.  Yeah.  Yeah, I know that that question comes up quite a bit.  And you and I have talked to Lazar about it multiple times over the last couple of years.  The topic has come up.  You know, I.  I don't want to pat ourselves too much on the back, but we have had a role behind the  scenes working with this committee because they want to line up the best group of witnesses  they could get.  And some of them needed help to talk them into it.  And we have played a part in that.  And for a while we were on the list of people who are going to going to speak.  That's not going to happen.  It changed this week.  But we're happy to help the committee as it moves forward.  And we know that this is the first of what's going to be a lot of hearing.  So, yeah, Dave Grush would be at the top of the list of people that I'd like to hear from.  Aviators like Dave Fravor, Alex Dietrich, Ryan Graves, folks like that would be great.  There's two names I want to bring up that I'd like to hear from sometime.  I think it's kind of a long shot to get either one of these guys, but they'd be great.  One is Jay Stratton.  The other is Dr. Jim Lekatsky.  And, of course, Jay Stratton, we had him on Weaponize.  We revealed him to the world in, I think, our third episode.  He's the only person we know of that was involved at every step of the way since OSAP,  since that program created in 2007 at the Defense Intelligence Agency.  He is the person who single-handedly did the first investigation of the Tic Tac case for OSAP.  What we now know about Tic Tac was largely as a result of his work.  He was part of OSAP, that first investigation after OSAP ended.  He was a key part of with Lou Elizondo on AATIP.  When that ended, he was brought back in by the U.S. Navy.  He put together an unofficial team.  That eventually became formalized by Congress, became the UAP Task Force.  I think a lot of the work that he and Travis Taylor did on that task force went into AIMSOG and Arrow,  and then he left government.  He's still working on UFO-related issues, but he'd be a great witness if they could ever talk him into it.  And, of course, Dr. Lekatsky was the brain behind OSAP.  He's the guy who started it.  He talked Harry Reid and Robert Bigelow into creating it and funding it.  He oversaw it.  He was courageous in terms of the scope of the program.  Appropriately, inappropriately, I think that was cut off before its time.  If it had not been, they were pursuing crash retrieval programs during OSAP,  and maybe that was part of the reason why they got their legs chopped off.  Of course, Lou Elizondo, we'd all love to hear official on-the-record testimony from him  because he's been so key to this whole process.  And, of course, the last name I would mention is Adler.  Admiral Thomas Wilson, and I don't have to explain why.  Yeah, yeah.  Our audience should go listen to one of our past episodes, or the last episode,  to hear about the Wilson-Davis memo, as it's called.  There's even a clip where I was talking about it on the Joe Rogan podcast way back in the day, George,  before it was really accepted and put into congressional record.  So they can look that up.  Yeah, all these names, man.  All these people.  I want to hear from all of them.  If it was my choice, it would be just a huge party of people spilling beans.  But I think we're really lucky  to have landed where we got to.  I actually think this is like our role in health facilitating.  I think that it's really appropriate that we hear from a few people with direct experience  from a military perspective, people on the inside talking now outwardly,  rather than just having the bureaucrats trying to stop all the information as if they're uneducated.  So I kind of like where we landed.  I'm excited to be there.  I'm excited.  I'm excited to kind of see and help this process kind of get louder.  This is our first set of hearings in history where you have people like this under oath.  I think they put you under oath, right?  You're under oath in the congressional setting.  I mean, it's going to be awesome.  And I think some of the people I know, they're ready to throw some grenades.  Do you want to get back into the Lazar thing?  Because I had this funny experience.  Sure.  Go ahead.  Before we leave this.  I just say, as you touched on there briefly, is what's going to happen at this hearing is important.  What is not going to happen at the hearing is also important.  And that is we're not going to hear excuses.  We're not going to hear bureaucrats or people who want to dismiss this  or folks who claim they have no knowledge of nukes, UFOs over our nuke bases.  They've never heard of the Wilson Davis documents.  They don't know the history of this.  Or they claim they've heard no credible evidence that there's non-human technology or sightings or cases.  Or things of that sort.  The excuse makers that have sat on this stuff for so long are not going to be the witnesses we're going to hear from.  And that is going to be a refreshing change.  Yeah.  And also, I've seen some crazy stuff online.  I mean, this is not going to be some ultimate disclosure.  They're going to walk an alien in as a witness.  However, that would be really cool if they did.  But I mean, I'm pretty sure now, after kind of working with everybody, I know what is not going to happen.  And it's, you know, I'm not going to be able to show some new faces.  I'm not going to put any footage in the public, put it in the public realm at that time.  We're not going to, you know, have this kind of mass thing people are talking about.  I've just read some crazy stuff online.  You know, keep your expectations right where they need to be.  Which is that we are starting the conversation under that setting.  You're going to see those people talk.  And it's just going to be really powerful testimony.  I think people are going to go just a little bit beyond where they've gone before.  Especially if they're asked good questions.  Because everybody makes a statement.  But then there's time for very smart people in Congress to ask the right questions.  And I think that's going to be very essential to how this goes.  But like you told me, George, maybe this time we're actually going to learn something compared to the other hearings.  Yeah, I hope so.  I really do hope so.  I hope we can be there for it.  That's my plan.  I don't know about yours.  But I hope we're there to see it in person.  And I know we traditionally try to lower expectations.  But this might be a case where, you know,  good solid expectations are appropriate.  Yeah, I think so.  Look, I'm an optimistic person.  And you know we are going to be there.  We have some things we have to do.  So you know we're going to be there.  But anyway, that sounds great.  And I do.  It was a really kind of funny experience I want to talk about.  It's kind of cool.  But there was this clip I saw.  And it was of Commander Fravor on Lieutenant Graves' podcast called Merged.  And it's just an awesome podcast.  And he focuses on, you know, pilots and that sort of thing.  Talking about this idea of bringing the information out.  And also he started a new organization.  And, man, he's done some great work.  But that conversation between Commander Fravor and between Lieutenant Graves was spectacular.  And what was of real interest to me was funny because I know Commander Fravor has spent time with Bob Lazar.  And that they, you know, become friends through understanding each other.  But to hear him on that.  I would like to play a clip of that.  I hope Ryan's okay with that.  But it's just this cool clip where they kind of talk about the climate of politics right now.  And kind of mentions Lazar a few times.  And it was really interesting to hear Commander Fravor talk about Bob Lazar and how different it is now.  How different the climate is now about going to Congress and talking about UAP or UFOs than what Bob said back in 1989.  But why don't you hear from him himself.  Some of the folks that are physics minded that say, well, that's against the law of physics.  No, it's against the laws of physics that we know.  You know, Einstein came up with a lot of laws of physics and theories that went against what people believed at the time.  But they've been proven to be true.  So because we don't have it now doesn't mean it's not possible.  It just means we haven't figured it out.  And if you talk to, you know, because I've talked to Bob, he'll tell you.  I said, how long do you think you, well, you saw, he said, at least another hundred years because our material science.  It's the same thing with anything else.  You go, oh, can we do this?  We don't have the material science to do it.  But now we do.  So I was talking to him one day and I said, I said, hey, how would you describe it?  He said in 1989, because he says he got to go inside the craft.  And this is obviously to the audience if you're assuming that you believe Bob.  I'll just say Bob's a very legitimate guy and he's very smart.  He said if you'd asked me, it was made out of wax and then you heat it up and then all the seams would melt because it didn't have any seams or rivets or anything like that.  That was 1989.  I said, what about now?  This is a couple of years ago.  He said 3D printing.  He goes, you would just 3D print it.  Because if you look at anything 3D printed, you know, you can make things that move in 3D printing, but it's one solid piece.  It's literally revolution.  There was a guy that made a whole car out of 3D printing.  So the brake assembly is literally one unit.  It's made as one unit.  And the piston inside moves and it doesn't have, you can't break it.  And what we're probably imagining here is more of, you know, not 3D printing as we have it today.  But, you know, a technological progression that would make it probably visually seamless.  And very strong.  Yes.  Not what we have today.  Well, it's going to get better.  With everything coming out right now, with Mr. Gorsh coming out.  I think that's how you say his name.  Crush.  Uh-huh.  Crush, I think.  Crush.  Crush.  Literally saying the same thing that Bob Lazar said in 1989.  And, you know, Bob got chastised for it.  And this guy's coming out now.  It's like, because it's accepted.  In 1989, if you just said UFO, UAP, whatever in Washington, D.C., you'd have been allowed  laughed out of your seat in Congress.  Well, now you've got active congressmen and women that are pushing policy, you know.  And I think it was Senator Rubio and Senator Gillibrand who were literally diametrically opposed politically.  But on this thing, they're not diametrically opposed.  And I've sat in rooms with both Republicans and Democrats who are diametrically opposed.  And, but on this topic, it's bipartisan.  There is no Republican or Democrat.  It's like, what are we trying to do?  And all people want to do is, this is not about little green men and what it is.  If it leads to something like that because we have stuff, so be it.  To me, it's not important.  What's important is, from our incident onward, is how do we figure out what these are?  How do they work?  Can we use that technology?  With social media and now the support of elected officials that want to know.  You know, if there is stuff, it's only a matter of time.  It's only a matter of time.  You can only hide so long because someone's going to talk.  You can't put that back in a box.  So anyway, that was a pretty cool clip.  And, you know, I just thought it was worth repeating.  It's funny, man.  I want to tell you the story.  So I can't, I don't want to reveal a bunch of it, but like, you know, of course there's this conversation of will Lazar testify?  And you've been asked and I've been asked to help facilitate.  And we've talked with Bob about it.  You know, there's nothing that would stop him from doing it.  Just that he's told you everything that he has to say.  But he did say the funniest shit the other day.  So it happened was I'm on video on FaceTime with Commander Fravor and just kind of walking him through kind of what's going on with hearings, why it's important, what the steps would be, who's holding it.  And I go, look, man, it's just going to be a handful, very small handful of people that have a kind of a direct experience, you know.  And also I want you guys to kind of shine that, you know, I don't think we're going to have Lazar come up this time.  I think that there's too much stigma.  And he like stopped me.  He stopped me in his tracks.  And he goes, why?  And he goes, get Bob on the phone.  Get Bob on the phone.  So we patched in Bob right into the FaceTime.  And man, Fravor was like, everything you said, man, everything you said.  He goes, I work in a really special job.  And I can't tell you what it is, but I'll tell you everything you said, man.  And it was just so cool to see that interaction.  Bob's reaction was hilarious because it was kind of like a soft pitch, you know, at the last minute.  Hey, man, what do you think about coming to D.C. to testify?  And he was basically like off the cuff.  Why would I help them find missing money when those assholes tried to ruin my life?  Yeah.  I mean, that was pretty funny.  Yeah, it's funny.  But I mean, there's other factors that go into it, too.  Bob does not feel like he owes the UFO world any kind of debt or sense of gratitude for how he's been treated over the past 30 plus years.  I think he gave it the office.  It's like what the saying used to be.  He told his story before there were whistleblower protections and he got dumped on for it.  And he continues to get dumped on pretty much every day.  I don't think he has any sense of loyalty to UFO world at all.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean, he wasn't trying to make light of it.  I mean, I get it.  Like, I get he you're bringing it to the real, which is like, man, you know, he was beat up by all this.  He's like, look, if you guys find out it's all true.  Great.  But it's not really part of his life anymore.  He doesn't really care.  I know that's hard for people to hear.  There's got to be something in him that, you know, likes it when punches are thrown.  You know, it's cool conversations he has with people like Amanda Fravor.  But yeah, he's just I think he's past it.  But, you know, George, I'm an optimist.  You never know.  I think having your story told again, if you can give the account in different settings, it touches people in different ways to come to conclusion on what you're saying.  Well, we'll see.  We'll also see if I'm able to get to Washington for this July 26th hearing without some airplane disaster happening.  You know what the curse is like.  The travel curse is real with George Knapp.  I can testify to that.  Anyway, man, look, I'm really excited for what's coming up in the next few weeks.  I know that there's going to be.  Some really awesome information put out.  And I'm just pumped.  I'm excited.  And yeah, man, let's all watch it together.  Yeah, we've got some good stuff coming, too.  So we do.  Until next time, everyone.  Never have so few had so much to tell but could say so little.  Following this new weaponized presentation of Jeremy Corbell, George Knapp, Dark Horse Entertainment and Cadence 13 Studios.  Available now for free on the Odyssey app or wherever you get your shows.  .