================================================================================
TRANSCRIPTION SUMMARY
Generated: 2025-12-12 15:21
================================================================================

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dylan Borland, a former geospatial intelligence specialist for the U.S. Air Force, shares his experiences and insights into covert military operations and unconventional aerial phenomena (UAP). Borland highlights his active-duty role in search and rescue missions post-bin Laden operation and subsequent involvement in drone program oversight, which he describes as notorious for suicides among operators. He also discusses breaches of constitutional rights within governmental agencies and corporate secrecy that hinder justice for victims. Borland claims direct knowledge of UAP events involving craft of unknown or non-human origin, having been involved in their crash recovery and reverse engineering. His testimony includes warnings about the dangers associated with nuclear power and potential threats from these phenomena. Facing limited time to prepare for a congressional hearing, he is prepared to share his experiences but acknowledges the life-altering consequences it may have. Borland’s willingness to go public suggests a belief that the truth must be brought to light despite personal risks.

KEY TAKEAWAYS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Dylan Borland served as a geospatial intelligence specialist for the U.S. Air Force during his active duty from 2010 to 2013.
2. He has direct, firsthand knowledge of crash recovery and reverse engineering related to unidentified aerial phenomena (UAP).
3. Borland mentions issues within the drone program that were potentially dangerous or harmful.
4. He believes in the existence of UAP as actual craft of unknown or non-human origin, involving technology and weapons.
5. Borland was given only six days to prepare his testimony for Congress and is currently seeking more clarity on publicly discussing certain aspects of his experiences.

CHAPTER BREAKDOWN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[00:00] Chapter Title: 
Air Force Service and Overwatch
[03:04] Chapter Title:  
Dylan's Unique Dilemma
[06:05] Chapter Title: UAP Disclosures and NHI Alerts
[09:09] Chapter Title: Intelligence Squadron Duties and Deployments
[12:09] Chapter Title: Pilot Stress and Command Understanding
[15:17] Chapter Title: Decision Matters
[18:19] Decision Making and Observer Perception
[21:20] Dynamic Work Assignments
[24:25] Post-Op Routine
[27:29] Title: **Mysterious White Lights**
[30:29] Hangar Origin Mystery
[33:32] Confidential Matters Discussed
[36:34] Oath-Administered Testimonies
[39:34] Odd Acknowledgments and Unofficial Reports
[42:34] Clearance Revocation Mystery

================================================================================
FULL TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================
My name is Dylan Borland, a former 1N1 geospatial intelligence specialist for the United States Air Force in an active duty enlisted capacity from 2010 to 2013.  I did the search and rescue for the SEALs and Marines who passed away in the helicopter accident, the ones that got bin Laden.  I did Overwatch for the withdrawal of Iraq. That was my unit I was a part of. I was a part of those missions.  That, I think, is honorable. There are other things that I have done that are questionable.  The drone program was actually notorious for suicide. I don't really know how many people know that.  Each day, victims of crimes committed by agencies and companies maintaining this secrecy are denied justice as another day our Constitution is shredded.  In 2023, patriots provided this committee and the executive branch with undeniable proof of the UAP reality.  People violate the Constitution or go against the law or treat people who are living up to their oaths poorly, threatening them, intimidating.  Then it has to come out.  Crimes that were committed, sexual assaults I'm aware of, stalking I'm aware of, brake lines being cut.  So you have direct knowledge of UAP being actual craft of unknown or non-human origin?  I have direct, first-hand knowledge and exposure to crash recovery, reverse engineering, as well as the most important piece of technology on the planet.  And it's not the craft themselves.  This is weapons.  In this episode of Weaponized, you will notice that we chose to censor certain details within Dylan's testimony, most unrelated to UAP.  This is to avoid unauthorized disclosures and is subject to an ongoing clearance review.  Dylan was given only six days to prepare his testimony for Congress.  He is currently seeking clarity on being able to publicly discuss certain aspects of his professional experience.  So Dylan Borland.  This is not the first time we've had this conversation, and it's not the first time we've recorded this conversation.  I have a lot of time to think about everything and knowing the kinds of things that I know.  And also, even before I came into this information, it is clear that these things are attracted to nuclear power.  This gets into DITRA on my last day there and that whole stuff.  You've been talking to Jeremy for a number of years, me for a lesser.  But a couple of years, and we didn't exactly know it ever come to this point.  I mean, right now you're in the running to be one of the witnesses at an upcoming congressional hearing.  I can only imagine how how scary that is, because, you know, going into this, no matter which way it goes, whether you testify or whether we end up airing an interview with you, it's going to change your life forever, right?  That is correct.  Yes, sir.  You're okay with it.  Your wife's okay with it.  Um, I mean, it's a very long.  Long convoluted spiderweb of emotions and justifications, but yes, uh, I think it has to be this way.  Jeremy, how did he come to you guys came to talk to each other?  Yeah, that's a, it's a whole story in and of itself, but you know, first Dylan, um, thanks for doing this.  You're probably the one person that I know that absolutely didn't want to go public and that it was a very unique place to be.  Other, other people have kind of flirted with the idea and I'm curious about, about that and we'll get into that.  Why?  I mean, as a Patriot, you wanted to do this through other means, but you're kind of forced to the position you are now, but our kind of origin story, you and me is kind of interesting because we, we've on a number of occasions, we had to kind of pretend we didn't know each other.  There would be some group gatherings that people would try to introduce us and we just make, oh, Hey, what's up.  But we have actually been talking for a long time now.  Um, why don't you tell me why you approached me to begin with?  Well, um, I mean, it goes.  Into this whole thing, but long story short is I had made a decision that I was going to go to Congress before going to arrow.  And I knew a way to get in touch with you and I knew you were in touch with George, which best decision you guys made.  And I reached out to let you know that I was considering becoming a whistleblower, um, not giving the full details on how much, but that if anything happened to me, that you may.  I see some things out there about me because I put in some security protections now, seven, eight years ago, if the day ever came and I reached out and given you the heads up.  And then I became a whistleblower going through the entire process.  But by the time that you had come around to know who I was, you, uh, were safe to know that I was firmly in that camp of the initial people that came forward before Dave brush.  Whistleblower in the sense of you're going to tell.  Things that people that you worked for, don't want you to tell.  100%.  100%.  Yes.  And a official whistleblower in the, you went through the same process as David Gresh with a full ICIG complaint.  Yes, sir.  Um, you know, his was labeled credible and urgent.  We don't know if you were lumped into his initial, um, you know, kind of document on that, but absolutely credible.  The urgent part is, is your life in danger?  You've.  Is there a.  Threat at that time, you're giving that statement to your life, right?  Yes, sir.  I, at least that's the way I understand it.  And as you both know, that whole thing is a story in and of itself, trying to get to the ground truth of where I'm even at.  And you guys are where my polygraph exam, where I disclosed, I did file a complaint.  And then during my polygraph, they're asking me about details of what I disclose to the IG.  But the way I understand it, the last time I talked with the attorney was you are credible.  Not urgent.  This happens.  I didn't know if I got lumped under Dave, if, because the issues I experienced had already come to pass and they said they wouldn't do it again, but yes, that is the way I understand it.  We're talking about UAP related disclosures.  We're talking about NHI, non-human intelligence.  These are the primary things that you were, um, kind of stuck in the position that you had to raise the alert on issues with arrow issues with the whole kit and caboodle.  And it's only.  I guess so now, I mean, I still can't get a job in the IC, no title 10, no title 50.  If I want to work in the government, it better be some buddy who needs a clearance and I can't do intelligence collection and analysis dissemination.  What you did, what your service was like, um, image analyst intelligence, individual, um, really want to serve my country.  I always knew my dad, having been in the government, he said, get a government job.  There's a pension there.  It's a job security.  So I did fairly well in high school.  Um, my mom had lost her house while I was in high school.  So kind of bouncing couches, staying in my grandmother's basement, but my guidance counselor wanted me to go to UPenn and I wanted to work for the FBI.  Um, and my guidance counselor really wanted me to go to UPenn and I refused to go there.  I went to Indiana university of Pennsylvania, little small state college in PA.  They had a national guard ROTC program.  I joined, did that for two years.  For my undergrad and at the end of two years, I got pulled in and they're like, Hey, we want to offer you a officer contract.  And I said, I want to go active duty air force.  They laughed and they're like, yeah, we understand.  Let us know when you graduate, we'll help you get in there.  So did my undergraduate criminal justice, criminology, poli-sci, uh, graduated, took my AFOQT air force officer qualification test, uh, for the air force to be active duty, passed it.  They offer me air battle manager at the time.  I had no idea.  What that was.  This is 2009 going into 2010.  If you guys remember the economy was in shambles and, uh, I was like, I have no idea what this job is.  The recruiter recruiter couldn't help me.  So I was like, well, I got to find a place to live, start paying back student loans.  So I decided to enlist as an imagery analyst, a one-on-one, uh, they look at maps like these, uh, photography, satellite, drone, manned aircraft, ISR, the whole kit and caboodle, IR, MSI.  HSI, EO, you name it.  If it's a picture coming from something up there, we're looking at it.  So you had to get a lot of training to know what you're looking at.  Textual was about six, seven months.  And then, uh, I had gotten into what is conventionally known as a drone program, which has made news around the world time and time again for lethal action strikes.  I had to go through additional training through there about three months and some, uh, on the job training, OJT.  Drone strikes, meaning you're here in the States operating drones.  And theaters of operation around the world.  Yes.  Um, I, when I graduated textual, I ended up at the 30th intelligence squadron, which is under the 480th and 497th, uh, wing.  And while there I got attached to Redacted.  So every single special forces unit, I probably worked with MARSOC, Pararescue, Redacted, SEALS, which is Redacted.  Whatever missions they were doing between pretty much 2010 until when I got out in 2013.  Um, I have my hand in, I told you guys before I did the search and rescue for the SEALS and Marines who passed away in the helicopter accident.  The ones that got in and logged in.  I did overwatch for the withdrawal of Iraq.  Uh, that was my unit.  I was a part of, I was a part of those missions and I have done some high profile lethal action missions.  Lethal action missions, meaning you're taking action through the drone that you're operating against enemy combatants.  Yeah.  And so it was my job to determine who, what, when, where, why, how, and make.  The call on that is the person we are seeking and what is happening.  You make the call, you press the button and somebody's dead.  I make the call.  I relay that in certain capacities, depending on who I work for.  Cause I did this in a number of different ways and each place I did, it has a different technique to relieve that information.  But my call would go and then that would get approval and the button would be pushed.  Yes.  And when you push those buttons, are you thinking I'm doing my duty, I'm protecting my country, fighting for the right cause?  Or.  Do you.  Is it, do you start having second thoughts about it at some point?  That is such a convoluted answer.  And the best way I can say it is this.  I love my time in the air force.  Cause while I was in the air force, it was about bringing our buddies home and that I worked for five.  I, so I did special forces for great Britain, special forces for Australia.  Sorry, getting choked up a little bit.  Um, there's a major difference between doing it for good reasons and doing it for.  Political reasons.  Um, so my time in the air force was good.  I thought I did a great job.  I think that's a great mission.  I think that everything should be done through the DOD and that gets into places that we really can't go.  But yeah, uh, there's always lingering questions.  I've only seen you get choked up twice and right there, I just, I'm assuming you got choked up a little bit there because the work that you're.  Doing does take a mental toll on you.  You're talking about eliminating combatants.  That's what you're talking about.  Targets, eliminating people, and you have to make that decision.  You've had to make that decision a lot of time, hundreds of times, probably right.  So I just want to contextualize why maybe, um, that's harder to talk about than the UAP stuff.  We're going to talk about, you know, my friends have committed suicide.  Um, the drone program was actually notorious for suicide.  I don't really know how many people know that.  There is.  Isn't at least when I was in and from people I know who stuck in that world, it's gotten better.  They brought psychologists in to help people, um, the commanding officers and even the colonels generals are more understanding.  A little background history.  The reason why they actually started to care about the emotional impact was because of the pilots.  The pilots were the ones that were having a terrible time switching over.  So you had a 10 pilots, you had C one 30 pilots, they come over.  And they'd be doing what we were doing and they just be miserable.  And there's a difference, you know, you get into TTPs and you get into certain things with that world, that TTPs techniques, tactics, procedures, um, that they'll never let out.  But long story short is there's a difference between the SF guys on the ground getting shot at its life and death.  And there's a difference between sitting there remotely and watching a.  A family to where, you know, what grocery store they go to, you know, what time their kids go to soccer practice, you know, what time they go to the bathroom, you know, what time their brother comes over for dinner every two, three times a week.  And you have that information at your fingertips.  Yeah.  You're watching it.  Um, but this goes back to why I love my time in the air force is because I was working ops.  What I was doing was in relation to that.  Um, to make sure they came home.  So yeah, we would do strikes, but it was mainly called tech troops in contact.  So if we were getting hit up, it's like, Hey, you got a Marine combat engineer team that had been blown up by some daisy chain.  IED get over there, see, they're taking indirect fire and find them.  And then it's like, okay, we see them firing.  It's not our guys hit them.  Um, that I think is honorable.  There are other things that I have done that are questionable.  Meaning you're told, all right, go for this target.  And that means you press a button and what happens?  A missile, uh, an explosive, some kind.  Um, I mean, you're going to get into things I know will never be allowed on film.  Okay.  But long story short is I remember one time we were after somebody who was redacted and we had him and we submitted the packet to take them out.  And because of a certain foreign diplomat being in the nation, we were told we've  had to wait until he left because they were causing an international issue.  So, so Dylan's not like operating the, the trigger on the drone, but what he's doing from what I understand, or were you?  No.  So what I did was I confirmed who it was.  So that way the person would take the shot.  So he's creating these packages of Intel and basically designating what the, the, the move or the, you know, the target should be hit or not hit.  You're not actually pressing the button that fires an explosive that blows something up.  No.  But your decision is key to that happening.  Whatever.  But your decision, it doesn't happen.  And you've done that hundreds of times.  Unfortunately, probably.  Yes.  At that point, you're not working for the air force anymore.  You're working for somebody else.  Can you say who that is?  Or you'd rather not.  When I was in the air force, I was working for the air force under redacted.  So, and then I were getting ahead of ourselves and this gets into other information.  I did end up doing it for an agency, multi-agency special access program under BAE systems, which you guys have a copy of my resume that is cleared.  And you can put it up there and to the people on film, you guys can probably figure out who it is.  I just didn't want to leave that without making it clear.  Air force was one thing you're doing things to protect our troops on the ground and go after bad guys.  A hundred percent.  And it transforms into something else that causes you considerable emotional grief and you're still dealing with it.  I will probably deal with it the rest of my life.  It's also why I'm in this situation I'm in, because I do not trust the people I did.  It for at what point did you get your master's in national security?  So I can get that.  Um, I'll go back to imagery real fast and fill in that for you guys.  Um, so when I came through tech school in 2010, there was not sensor ops and the sensor op is a redacted, but because the FMV program, that's what it's called.  That is an imagery oriented mission.  So they would pull imagery analysts for it.  FMV is that full motion video.  Yup.  So I.  I had to go through imagery analysis, tech school.  So MSI, HSI, EO, IR, satellite drone, manned aircraft, you name it.  If it is in the world of imagery for our government, I had to go through that tax school.  So looking at nuclear power plants, order of battle for air ground, naval, basically whatever can come across the desk in a picture, we had to go through tax school for it.  And then when we went through there, depending on where you ended up.  Some of us were pulled into the drone program.  But the image analysts meeting, you can see everything.  So let's say there's a home, there's a family lives in a home.  One of them's a suspected terrorist or terrorist leader.  You can see who's cooking dinner, who's coming in and out.  What, what kinds of things can you determine?  Uh, it depends on how long you're looking at them.  It depends on what you're shooting with.  It, it just, it depends on what the tasking is.  A lot of times I'm working with second guys, human guys.  I mean, we're all kind of in a room together.  We know a little bit about what everybody does and you kind of pick up a little here and there.  You convey information to the redacted who presses the button, but can you convey help?  Do you give them context?  Do you say, all right, this is how many people are in this building or what kind of context?  Yeah, that's part of the job.  I mean, it depends on how you're looking at it.  Um, how many people are in a vehicle?  How many people are in the home?  Uh, how many children are around?  Um, how long had they driven?  Just, it just depends.  So for example, you convey.  Something like this, all right, there's a, there's a vehicle, there's a bed guy who's driving that vehicle, but also in it is a wife and three kids.  Do you convey that and let them make a decision?  Yeah.  Yep.  I mean, that decision on what to do with that is not mine to make.  Something I find interesting about Dylan's background is people talk about trained observers.  Like how does he know what he saw was what it looks like?  And you, we see imagery all the time.  And at first you and I are kind of stumped because we're not imagery analysts, specialists, but we got one right.  Right here.  So if, you know, something goes out into public and I show Dylan, he can give an educated opinion.  So when I've showed him like the jellyfish after it was public or whatever it is that you and I put out to get his insights, because he knows all of those systems, like the back of his hand, and he can tell you what you're seeing, what you're not seeing.  Um, I will be interested on when George and I end up releasing more stuff and more as public after it's public, just what you think about it.  But so you've got that specialty as a trained observer on all these systems.  I understand.  You did a lot of work with the drone program and, um, but kind of what else are you like, what are the terms that we could say, this is what Dylan did in his professional career.  So image analyst, image analyst, um, drone program, you know, I synthetic aperture radar SAR.  So, you know, taking shots through clouds and getting the elevation data back and reading that on.  How it looks and there's techniques you can do with that.  That is wild, uh, tracking people and seeing things.  Um, were you, what they call an all source analyst or is that different?  I did end up doing that for a while when I got to DITRA, which is future and things I found out related to this subject while I was at DITRA.  Um, what's DITRA, the defense threat reduction agency, and I was under redacted.  Um, that is who I fell under.  And again, we're getting way ahead of ourselves.  But, uh, I ended up doing that all source analyst.  I ended up back over to geospatial.  I've done a little bit cyber Intel.  Um, I've done a little bit, I've done a little bit of SIGINT because the SIGINT would come in and I had to geolocate it and provide products for locations of phone data and all of that stuff.  From everybody I've talked with in, you know, kind of vetting you and getting to know you, um, you're reliable.  You're really good at your job.  You've had a long time, uh, working as a Patriot for our government in these highlands.  You've had to keep and maintain security clearances for our audience.  It's TSSCI with poly, right?  Which means I've been polygraphed, right?  Which means top secret, top secret, special compartment information with polygraph polygraph.  So you have to do that regularly and make sure that, you know, you're wound, you're wound tight, you know, we're on the right, right.  And, and you're, and you're a good employee, right?  Yep.  So you, uh, typical day at work when you report, do you know what you're going to be doing?  Or.  Or you come in and they say, all right, you're on this system.  You're watching this stuff today.  Depends on the time of the year.  Depends on what we were doing.  The global war on terror depends on where I'm at.  But you're looking all over the world on different systems.  Predominantly, uh, middle East.  But if I got Iraq and other nations that were a part of the global war on terror.  Um, but you know, if we have an interest in seeing a picture of something, I could come into work and have to do  something with it.  Do you ever look at Jeremy's house and, uh, no Intel oversight, which gets funny is because that goes back to all of this stuff with UAPs over America.  Um, you know, it's fun watching the imagery, uh, classify under Intel oversight as you cross that wonderful border.  Cause you can actually see what gets censored out and what doesn't.  Do you, are there systems that you would be required to look at that cover the U S maybe terrorist suspects floating around?  No.  So I, I would have to have special authorities depending on the agency.  And now you're getting into a gang, going back to the UFO subject and how things qualify and department of justice and the IC.  Um, I know those programs exist.  I know people have been in those programs.  I know how those programs work and the authorities with them.  I didn't never, I never did it.  In general conflict zones, pretty conflicts, even non-conflict zones.  If we have an interest in a hurricane, the damage it did to the.  To some Naval port or airport in the middle of the Pacific, you know, that might pop up on my radar and I might have to do something with it.  And then you were working for someone else.  Can you say who, or.  Yeah.  Um, I guess we can go into that.  So this kind of gets into how I got into all of this mess.  Um, so redacted summer of 2012, I, the way they do operations stateside in that capacity is it's 12 hour shifts.  So redacted.  So four days on three days off three days on four days off some modified version, summer of 2012, uh, we were weathered down, it's called WX.  And when we were weathered down doing ops, we would do a split shift for the 12 hour shift.  So I was an older airman, all my, uh, NCOs and some of the officers know I might agree.  No, I could have been an officer.  So at E four, I'm basically kind of there in charge, but not in charge.  Like Dylan.  So I'd usually send, I would tell everybody, all the sergeants, everybody, look, go home to your families, eat dinner, go hang out with them.  It's seven o'clock at night.  I live in the barracks.  I have no kids.  I'm not married.  So I would do the first six hours.  So that was from seven o'clock at night till one in the morning.  And then half of us who worked the first half of that 12 hour shifts, and then we would rotate and the second half would come in and work the second half.  So summer of 2012, I worked the first half.  We're weathered down.  Nothing's happening.  You're on call.  You got to stay away to be able to come back to the ops floor and I drive back to my barracks room and redacted and you come up the JAG office, the gym, and then you would make a right going to my barracks.  So I leave the ops floor one, one 15 in the morning, drive past all this, go back home, uh, get to my barracks room, change on my uniform, grab my cigarettes, grab my phone, go outside one 30, one 45 in the morning.  And I go to smoke a cigarette.  Uh, yeah.  And the gazebo right next to my barracks room, these old decrepit barracks.  So I go in the gazebo and I'm sitting there and I'm smoking a cigarette.  I'm on the phone with my buddy.  Oh, we've talked about, and I'm looking at the flight line.  Cause that's where the entry point is to the gazebo and the entry point where you walk in faces the flight line and faces the NASA hangar behind it.  So from where I'm sitting, it's three blocks, four blocks up the JAG office, the gym, the flight line.  The.  Now.  I'm sitting in front of the NASA hangar on my phone, smoking a cigarette, and I see a white light pop up from the NASA hangar comes up about a hundred feet and stops.  I know it was a NASA hangar cause I have redacted at one 32 in the morning on a weeknight.  It was a Tuesday, Wednesday night.  I am positive.  It came from there cause I've redacted.  And in my mind, I think, Oh, weather balloon tests.  You're testing some redacted.  No big deal.  So this white light pops up and stops a hundred feet.  I light my cigarette.  I finished my cigarettes about six, seven minutes after that's about how long it takes to smoke a cigarette.  And I start walking towards the flight line because I'm on call.  I have to go back to the ops floor.  The weather clears.  And at night I would walk the track because I have to stay awake.  I never rotated a daze.  I listen to music or podcasts, whatever, and just walk the track, not get hassled, stay out of the road.  I start walking up to where this light is hovering.  Above the NASA hangar, I mean, I get about two, three blocks in and on the right is the auto body shop.  So they had garages at Langley air force base where you can pull your car in and pull the drain plugs and oil changes all that.  As I'm walking up towards the light to go to the track on my left, the white light flies across the flight line to me.  And it flies right across the flight line to me.  And as it flies, it's a hundred feet.  It's a hundred to 150 foot equilateral triangle appears right over me, a hundred feet above me, a hundred feet in front of me.  The triangle had black metallic flake paint.  I am a car guy and it looked like that expensive, like classic look.  Like you could see the light glisten off of it.  Equilateral triangle.  I could only see the bottom and angles.  It was a 90 degree right angle all around.  I could not see.  I could only see the top of it.  There were four lights, one smaller light on each corner and then a larger second light, which was two to three times the size of the corner lights.  And in my estimation, it was about the size of a small size sedan.  So like a Nissan S-E-R Sentra, Nissan Altima, that was at the center.  All of them were white.  What was odd though, is that when I'm looking at it, the way I have tried to describe it and I don't, words cannot describe it because it's so wild seeing.  Is imagine taking a picture of the James Webb telescope where all those colors of galaxies are out there.  Imagine those colors make them yellow gold.  Put them on top of the aircraft and make it a lava lamp because the whole outside had this yellow transparent glow coming all around the craft.  And it was pulsating.  So this thing flies to me.  It's a light.  All of a sudden, while it's flying to me, this triangle appears.  appears I can't tell you if it's active camouflage I cannot tell you if it manifested around it the  only thing I can tell you is that light came and a triangle appeared around it my cell phone gets  incredibly hot and completely freezes and shuts down I'm under it and I the first thought in my  mind is literally okay so this is real too like I've been in redacted I've had access to things  and I'm like okay another thing that's real hours meaning hours I would initially suspect so I mean  it was on the base um due to things that I found out having been in government for long enough and  knowing certain truths and having been through the whistleblower process and understanding  uh questions and why they're asked and how they're asked um I am now of the opinion that what I saw  was not ours but  this gets into a troubling precedent which is if that one wasn't ours then why redacted but uh I'm  under it it's probably in front of me three five minutes and I'm just looking at it um there is no  sound there is nothing it is just hovering there and it's just pulsating above me right above the  JAG office in the gym did it seem to be reacting to you because you'd seen it or I I don't know  you know that is one of the questions one of many  questions that I've had in my life that I've had in my life that I've had in my life that I've had  in my life that I have as a quote-unquote experiencer as a whistleblower as a veteran as  somebody who has been in close proximity to these as somebody who has had their life destroyed over  this that is one of the questions I would love to know because it's one of the things that keeps me  up at night which is why did it fly across the base to me you said before you've seen these  balloons come out of the NASA facility they weren't glowing it would be like a light you  know like a balloon yeah  yes but this one was glowing and it seemed to have come out of that same spot or do you know I came out  of there what I am 100 sure of I cannot tell you it came out of the hangar I am 100 sure it came  from that hangar there is no doubt in my mind it was at that hangar meaning it came out of the  hangar meaning it was housed there or it had been hovering there could have been hovering there it  could have been on the ground outside of it it could have come out from it I cannot tell you  because I didn't see it but I know it came from that hangar and it shot off at the end yeah  so uh I first see the light I finished my cigarette seven eight minutes I walk up this  thing flies to me triangle appears I'm under it three to five minutes and all of a sudden the  center light flashes it's flashes two to three times it's just this quick like like almost if  you plug a electrical outlet in the wall you know that spark electricity it does that and that thing  shoots off to commercial air jet level in my arrow testimony I said twenty to thirty thousand feet  I estimate commercial aircraft level because I've seen commercial aircraft flying around the base  that's usually what they cruise at um and as it goes off it gets to that flight level in seconds  like three seconds easy and at that moment I feel static electricity all over my body and I  immediately immediately smell a rainstorm lightning storm like a strong lightning thunderstorm that  you smell after there's just lightning and just horrific beautiful thunderstorm I smell that  static electricity still no noise and it gets up to the flight level my phone I'm able to reset and  it gets up there and the only light I could see is the center light so I couldn't see the corner  lights just the center light if I did not witness it take off that would have looked like a star  try to get my phone reset I get it reset I want to take a picture of it I can't make out anything  and I kick myself to this day because I'm  at my phone and I remember looking at it I'm like man should I keep this I'm like no one's  ever going to believe it you can't see anything and I was like yeah but the date and time are in  there I'm an idiot and I erased it so it gets up to that flight level it pauses and it's there and  I'm watching it and after a few minutes it goes due East out over the bay out into the Atlantic  Ocean and I made the point to make sure because I know this is real I know this exists I've  experienced it and I came forward  out of concern for people's safety which is the only reason I came out of the shadows because of  what was done to me and what I know is true I made the point to make sure that everyone I told is that  did not go to Norfolk which is where the Naval Station is that didn't go up north towards the  Marine Station that didn't go over the redacted that went due East out over the ocean and I just  watched this thing kind of trailer off like a satellite out over the ocean what do you do at  the time though is there a process that you would follow for something like that hey tell your  friends to file a written report or what so there's no process at all um I told a couple of my friends  and there was a couple sergeants who had heard me talking one night and you know I've talked with  mutual friend who testified under oath about this one of them actually had told me because I was  getting medically discharged at the time he had said Dylan you never talk about this and I was  like funny man I was like if what's it doing over our base anybody wants to talk to me you have  security forces OSI I might clearances like  he's like no trust me don't talk about it I thought it was a joke like I'm like you're  not going to go and test aircraft in the middle of the night on Langley Air Force Base you're  what what like apparently he was right though hindsight is 20 20 but yeah you work for the  Air Force you told us what you did and then you're working for someone else at the time  you saw this thing at Langley it's an Air Force base but you're not working for the Air Force at  that time at that point I was working for the Air Force later you work for somebody else and we've  asked you a couple of times do you not want to say who you work for I cannot say it because as of  the time as of this time right now I understand that that information is classified it's not  allowed out there um I can say it's a multi-agency special access program under BAE uh British  Aerospace engineering systems so you don't want to cross there's a line you don't want to cross  because of legal uh ramifications or because you promised you would uh both and I still believe in  national security which is why I'm here it's why I went through the whistleblower process it's why  I'm so upset that so many whistleblowers have been let down it's why I'm upset that laws are  not being followed it's why I'm upset that SEC whistleblower payments which is 10 to anybody who  comes forward with any information of financial abuse and wrongship should receive that um there's  a number of reasons but ultimately I believe in the Constitution of the United States yeah  in a sense you are a patriot of course you're you love your country but you are a patriot  uh in a sense that there's a limit to it and when people violate the Constitution or go against the  law or treat people who are living up to their oaths poorly threatening them intimidating then  it has to come out yeah it's infuriating um people there's a difference between being disgruntled and  me being disgruntled and me be releasing everything names locations places crimes  that were committed sexual assaults I'm aware of uh stalking I'm aware of break lines being cut  uh it would be me releasing all of that and I'm not doing that I am doing that because this needs  to be told the people that are in these programs and the decision makers at Congress in the  executive branch owe it to the American people to the whistleblowers to the veterans to the service  members to tell the truth and the capacity they can because this is coming out no matter what and  when it does if they are not a part of it this is going to be a lot worse than it already is  so you have direct knowledge  UAP being actual craft of unknown or non-human origin? From your official capacity of work,  you have some direct knowledge of that? 100%. Not only do I have it, I testified to it. I  provided materials proving it, and it was proven to me that what I provided was in fact true.  Who did you testify to? List them out. Senate staff, House staff, ARO, and the ICIG.  Under oath. Under oath. FBI was there. The ICIG was there.  The DOD was there at points in time. Staff members from armed services, intelligence.  Basically, I went through the whole kit and caboodle to tell the truth  and get this on record because I have grave concerns for what is happening to people.  Is there something else in between that thing that you saw that went pshh? Other experiences,  things that you saw either as a citizen or while working for the government that you want to share  with us? There are many. I think as of this time,  what I will say is this. I have direct firsthand knowledge and exposure to crash recovery,  reverse engineering, integration of technology into redacted as well as the most important  piece of technology on the planet. And it's not the craft themselves. It would be the power source.  You can make that assessment yourself. So you saw these things in between when  you became a whistleblower and went through that process?  thing or explain that to us all right so uh it'd be a long way to answer this sir um so because i  was part of redacted i had to deploy under redacted part of that required getting my wisdom teeth  removed when i had my wisdom teeth removed to deploy to afghanistan uh they cut the nerve in  my face so i can't feel the right half of my face left half of my face is numb i just can't feel  can't taste teeth destroyed why was that required why was that because from my understanding and  the dod the way they explained it to me is the number one reason for people coming back from  overseas is dental issues so to preemptively uh prevent people coming back from dental and  impact their wisdom teeth and those issues they remove them preemptively so i was required to get  my wisdom teeth removed during that process they cut the nerve in my face can't feel uh around that  time preparing to deploy to afghanistan i also slipped a disc in my back so slip my disc l5s1  and long story  short i went up to med board um i had to go to specialists in richmond i had to go to the navy  i went all over southern virginia trying to figure out what to do about my jaw and my teeth my tongue  my mouth all on record um and when i went up for med board they had denied i ever had the surgery  and kicked me out of the air force as a 10 10 disabled veteran which they said my herniated  disc wasn't even that bad and i had to fight the va for over 10 years and i had to fight the  va for over 10 years for them to even acknowledge i had the wisdom teeth removed which is getting  into things that are odd to say the least and what has happened to me since i saw that triangle  and what has happened to me since i came into the information i came into was there some kind  of written record that you had seen that uh triangle that leads to uh complications for you  because you said you didn't really file an official report you just told two people about it  to my no i never filed any official statement not until much later  so i'm not going to lie to you i'm not going to lie to you i'm not going to lie to you i'm not going to lie to you  um and we'll get into that which is after all this stuff happened to me on that ditch run i'm still  paying attention because i know what's happening i'm looking at atip and awsap and i'm monitoring  files that are coming across i saw my clearances um but nothing other than word of mouth  or if there was something else that had happened that night that i'm unaware of  there should have been nothing official bae is you know we talk about lockheed and north  rope and the big companies aerospace companies that you think ah the those guys are the keepers  of the secrets bae does what bae is uk's uh version of lockheed and northrop grumman and they have an  american subsidiary branch that's allowed to operate in america since you know technically  you're not foreign governments working in uh secret no foreign or no foreign areas but uh bae is  britain's pretty much a large  aerospace company who is very well probably very well informed on this subject british company that  does a lot of work for the us government yep and the british government five eyes intelligence  aerospace engineering i mean it is the british version of lockheed northrop you get hired by  them to do what what's your job full motion video analyst intelligence analyst in a similar  capacity that i did for the air force are you you're looking at sensor systems that is part of  it yes sir  and and again in conflict zones or what doing yes yeah primarily conflict zones primarily i  mean there's a lot with this whole thing in my time there that i'm not i know is going to be  so restricted and i don't want to give them a reason for them to come after me but yeah  so bae you're working in the united states for a british aerospace company the information though  is shared with american intelligence yes yep and sometimes other nations depending on what it is  british of course  five eye so australia canada great britain new zealand u.s what are you seeing what are you  looking at redacted did you like your work for bae uh early on i did um and then things took a  dramatic insane turn and at that point i became very disgusted and it got insane what was the  term what did you do i found out that i was working illegally the entire time i was there  um so  there is a process that you are supposed to have your clearances housed in called scattered castle  or jpass that has changed since then and i ended up working over there and i was quite open about  my experiences having seen what i've seen at langley air force base and elsewhere  and about seven months into working there i found out that my clearance was revoked  administratively and i was not in any system and no one could look me up so i was basically stuck in  working there indefinitely or i had to leave the ic completely was this situation where it sounds  like administrative terrorism where it sounds like some sort of purgatory where you're put in a  position where you're technically illegally working which means you can't go out and get  other employment you can't leave that job um is there something i'm missing like why would  you be put into this restricted category unless you had accidental exposure about direct uap and  information including reverse engineering that is the best guess i have and the reason why i have  that opinion is because i know people who worked in the legacy program that their careers were tanked  very very very similar things that were done to me were done to them  so you were he was exposed and i think we should talk about yeah so you were exposed to what what  did you see that why would they take that step you're working for them doing a good  job you like the work in general and then suddenly you learn out i don't have a security clearance  did you say hey what the hell where's my clearance oh i did and i was persona non grata  uh new people were told they weren't allowed to contact me not allowed to talk to me  it's actually a joke uh the people that i'm still great friends with a lot of people i work there  with and you could call me abrasive people love me or they hate me i'm going to tell you what it is  i try to mitigate how rude it sounds but the truth is the truth and some people love it some people  hate it but it is to this day a joke amongst my co-workers that i work there with which was  they had it out for me well it has to be a reason yeah bottom line you do  that is my impression is is that they had it out for me because i was knowledgeable about  the subject and the reality of it and i was talking about it fairly openly because to me  it's not this big deal like this is reality you're but you were exposed specifically to proof about  uap reverse engineering in official capacity meaning while you're at work and really when you're  And with those individuals, can you, I know that you've tried to do this a number of different  ways.  Now you went to the ICIG, you've testified to Arrow.  What is it that you saw and found out and can tell us about?  To be continued in part two of our interview with whistleblower Dylan Borland.