================================================================================
TRANSCRIPTION SUMMARY
Generated: 2025-12-12 13:56
================================================================================

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dylan Portland, a former U.S. Air Force geospatial intelligence specialist from 2010 to 2013, shares his experiences and concerns regarding government operations and UFOs (Unidentified Aerospace Phenomena). He emphasizes the questionable practices of the drone program, highlighting it as notorious for causing suicide among personnel. Portland also discusses instances of constitutional violations, including sexual assaults, stalking, and illegal wiretapping. He claims direct knowledge of UAP being actual craft of unknown or non-human origin, derived from his involvement in crash recovery and reverse engineering operations. His testimony, part of the "Weaponized" podcast series, was censored to avoid unauthorized disclosures and is subject to ongoing clearance review. Despite personal reservations about going public, Portland feels compelled to share this information due to its significance. He acknowledges that testifying or being interviewed could drastically alter his life, but believes it must be done for the sake of transparency and justice.

KEY TAKEAWAYS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Dylan Portland served as a geospatial intelligence specialist for the U.S. Air Force from 2010 to 2013.
2. He participated in search and rescue missions for SEALs and Marines who died in a helicopter accident.
3. Dylan has direct knowledge of the drone program, which was notorious for suicide among its personnel.
4. He believes that crimes committed by agencies and companies maintaining secrecy are undermining the Constitution.
5. Dylan claims to have firsthand experience with crash recovery and reverse engineering related to Unidentified Aerial Phenomena (UAP) and possesses important technological information.

CHAPTER BREAKDOWN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[00:00] Chapter Title: Honorable Missions and Beyond
[03:05] Dylan's Unique Journey
[06:05] Chapter Title: UAP Disclosures and Ongoing Issues
[09:09] Chapter Title: Intelligence Operations and Special Forces Missions
[12:11] Pilot Stress and Leadership Response
[15:15] Chapter Title: Decisions Over Explosives
[18:16] Decision Making in Complex Situations
[21:23] Global Surveillance Rotations
[24:25] Morning Routine Revisited
[27:25] Oddly Lit Structure
[30:26] Glowing Object Origin Mystery
[33:27] No Process in Place
[36:30] Oath-Declared Testimoniesverified
[39:32] Struggle with VA Acknowledgment
[42:34] Revoked Clearance and Consequences

================================================================================
FULL TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================
My name is Dylan Portland, a former one-in-one geospatial intelligence specialist for the United States Air Force and an active duty and listed capacity from 2010 to 2013.  I did the search and rescue for the SEALs and Marines who passed away in the helicopter accident, the ones that got been lauded in.  I did overwatch for the withdrawal of Iraq. That was my unit I was a part of. I was a part of those missions.  That, I think, is honorable. There are other things that I have done that are questionable.  The drone program was actually notorious for suicide. I don't really know how many people know that.  Each day, victims of crimes committed by agencies and companies maintaining this secrecy or denied justice is another day our Constitution is shredded.  In 2023, patriots provided this committee and the executive branch with undeniable proof of the UAP reality.  People violate the Constitution or go against the law or treat people who are living up to their oaths poorly, threatening them, intimidating, then it has to come out.  Crimes that were committed, sexual assaults I'm aware of, stalking I'm aware of, break lines being cut.  So you have direct knowledge of UAP being actual craft of unknown or non-human origin.  I have direct firsthand knowledge and exposure to crash recovery, reverse engineering, as well as the most important piece of technology on the planet, and it's not the craft themselves.  This is weaponized.  In this episode of Weaponized, you will notice that we chose to censor certain details within Dylan's testimony, most unrelated to UAP.  This is to avoid unauthorized disclosures and a subject to an ongoing clearance review.  Dylan was given only six days to prepare his testimony for Congress.  He is currently seeking clarity on being able to publicly discuss certain aspects of his professional experience.  So Dylan Borland, this is not the first time we've had this conversation and it's not the first time we've recorded this conversation.  I have a lot of time to think about everything and knowing the kinds of things that I know.  And also, even before I came into this information, it is clear that these things are attracted to nuclear power.  This gets into DITRA on my last day there and that holds.  You've been talking to Jeremy for a number of years, me for a lesser but a couple of years, and we didn't exactly know it ever come to this point.  I mean, right now, you're in the running to be one of the witnesses at an upcoming congressional hearing.  I can only imagine how scary that is because you know, going into this, no matter which way it goes, whether you testify or whether we end up airing an interview with you, it's going to change your life forever, right?  That is correct. Yes, sir.  You're okay with it? Your wife's okay with it?  I mean, it's a very long convoluted spiderweb of emotions and justifications, but yes, I think it has to be this way.  Jeremy, how did he come to, you guys came to talk to each other?  Yeah, that's the whole story in and of itself, but you know, first Dylan, thanks for doing this.  You're probably the one person that I know that absolutely didn't want to go public and that is a very unique place to be.  Other people have kind of flirted with the idea and I'm curious about that and we'll get into that.  Why, as a patriot, you wanted to do this through other means, but you're kind of forced to the position you are now.  But our kind of origin story, you and me, is kind of interesting because on a number of occasions we had to kind of pretend we didn't know each other.  There would be some group gatherings that people would try to introduce us and we just think, oh, hey, what's up?  But we have actually been talking for a long time now.  Why don't you tell me why you approached me to begin with?  Well, I mean, it goes into this whole thing, but long story short is I had made a decision that I was going to go to Congress before going to Arrow  and I knew a way to get in touch with you and I knew you were in touch with George, which best decision you guys made.  And I reached out to let you know that I was considering becoming a whistleblower, not giving the full details on how much,  but that if anything happened to me that you may see some things out there about me because I put in some security protections now seven, eight years ago.  If the day ever came and I reached out and given you the heads up and then I became a whistleblower going through the entire process.  But by the time that you had come around to know who I was, you were safe to know that I was firmly in that camp of the initial people that came forward before Dave Rush.  Whistleblower in the sense of you're going to tell things that people that you worked for don't want you to tell.  100%, 100%, yes.  And an official whistleblower in that you went through the same process as David Rush with a full ICIG complaint.  His was labeled credible and urgent.  We don't know if you were lumped into his initial kind of documents on that, but absolutely credible.  The urgent part is, is your life in danger?  Is there a threat at that time you're giving that statement to your life?  Yes, sir.  At least that's the way I understand it.  And as you both know, that whole thing is a story in and of itself trying to get to the ground truth of where I'm even at.  And you guys are where my polygraph exam where I disclosed I did file a complaint and then during my polygraph they're asking me about details of what I disclosed to the IG.  But the way I understand it the last time I talked with the attorney was you are credible, not urgent.  This happens.  I didn't know if I got lumped under Dave if because the issues I experienced had already come to pass and they said they wouldn't do it again.  But yes, that is the way I understand it.  We're talking about UAP related disclosures.  We're talking about NHI and non-human intelligence.  These are the primary things that you were kind of stuck in the position that you had to raise the alert on.  Issues with Arrow, issues with the whole kid in Kaboodle.  And it's ongoing.  I guess so now.  I mean, I still can't get a job in the IC.  No title 10, no title 50.  If I want to work in the government, it better be somebody who needs a clearance and I can't do intelligence collection analysis to some a nation.  What you did, what your service was like, image analyst, intelligence individual?  Really want to serve my country.  I always knew.  My dad, having been in the government, he said get a government job.  There's a pension there.  It's job security.  So I did fairly well in high school.  My mom had lost her house while I was in high school.  So kind of bouncing couches, staying in my grandmother's basement.  But my guidance counselor wanted me to go to UPenn and I wanted to work for the FBI.  And my guidance counselor really wanted me to go to UPenn and I refused to go there.  I went to Indiana University of Pennsylvania, little small state college in PA.  They had a National Guard ROTC program I joined.  Did that for two years for my undergrad.  And at the end of two years, I got pulled in.  They're like, hey, we want to offer you an officer contract.  And I said, I want to go active duty Air Force.  They laughed.  And they're like, yeah, we understand.  Let us know when you graduate.  We'll help you get in there.  So did my undergraduate criminal justice, criminology, PolySci.  Graduated, took my AFOQT, Air Force Officer Qualification Test.  For the Air Force to be active duty.  Passed it.  They offered me Air Battle Manager.  At the time, I had no idea what that was.  This is 2009, going into 2010.  If you guys remember, the economy was in shambles.  And I was like, I have no idea what this job is.  The recruiter couldn't help me.  So I was like, well, I got to find a place to live.  So I'm paying back student loans.  So I decided to enlist as an imagery analyst, a one in one.  They look at maps like these, photography, satellite, drone,  manned aircraft, ISR, the whole kit and caboodle, IR, MSI, HSI, EO.  You name it.  If it's a picture coming from something up there, we're looking at it.  So you had to get a lot of training to know what you're looking at.  Textual was about six, seven months.  And then I had gotten into what is conventionally known as the drone program,  which has made news around the world time and time again for lethal action strikes.  I had to go through additional training through there about three months  and some on the job training, OJT.  Joan, drone strikes, meaning you're here in the States operating drones  and theaters of operation around the world.  Yes.  When I graduated textual, I ended up at the 30th Intelligence Squadron,  which is under the 4080th and 497th Wing.  And while there, I got attached.  Redacted.  So every single Special Forces unit I probably worked with,  Marsauk, Para Rescue.  Redacted.  SEALs, which is redacted.  Whatever missions they were doing between pretty much 2010 until when I got out in 2013,  I had my hand in.  I told you guys before, I did the search and rescue for the SEALs and Marines  who passed away in the helicopter accident, the ones that got in Laudan.  I did overwatch for the withdrawal of Iraq.  That was my unit I was a part of.  I was a part of those missions.  And I have done some high-profile lethal action missions.  Lethal action missions, meaning you're taking action through the drone  that you're operating against enemy combatants.  Yeah.  So it was my job to determine who, what, when, where, why, how,  and make the call on that is the person we are seeking and what is happening.  You make the call.  You press the button and somebody's dead.  I make the call.  I relay that in certain capacities, depending on who I work for.  I did this in a number of different ways.  And each place I did it has a different technique to relay that information.  But my call would go and then that would get approval and the button would be pushed, yes.  And when you push those buttons, are you thinking,  I'm doing my duty, I'm protecting my country, fighting for the right cause,  or do you start having second thoughts about it at some point?  That is such a convoluted answer and the best way I can say it is this.  I love my time in the Air Force because while I was in the Air Force,  it was about bringing our buddies home.  And now I work for Five-Eye.  So I did Special Forces for Great Britain, Special Forces for Australia.  Sorry, getting choked up a little bit.  There's a major difference between doing it for good reasons  and doing it for political reasons.  So my time in the Air Force was good.  I thought I did a great job.  I think that's a great mission.  I think that everything should be done through the DoD  and that gets into places that we really can't go.  But yeah, there's always lingering questions.  I've only seen you get choked up twice.  And right there, I just, I'm assuming you got choked up a little bit there  because the work that you're doing does take a mental toll on you.  You're talking about eliminating combats.  That's what you're talking about, targets, eliminating people.  And you have to make that decision.  You've had to make that decision a lot of time, hundreds of times.  Probably.  Right.  So I just want to contextualize why maybe that's harder to talk about  than the UAP stuff we're going to talk about.  You know, my friends have committed suicide.  The drone program was actually notorious for suicide.  I don't really know how many people know that.  There isn't, at least when I was in and from people I know who stuck in that world,  it's gotten better.  They brought psychologists in to help people.  The commanding officers and even the colonels, generals are more understanding.  A little background history.  The reason why they actually started to care about the emotional impact was because of the pilots.  The pilots were the ones that were having a terrible time switching over.  So you had A-10 pilots, you had C-130 pilots, they come over  and they'd be doing what we were doing and they'd just be miserable.  And there's a difference, you know, you get into TTPs  and you get into certain things with that world that  Techniques, Tactics, Procedures that don't ever let out.  But long story short is there's a difference between the SF guys  on the ground getting shot at, it's life and death.  And there's a difference between sitting there remotely and watching a family  to where you know what grocery store they go to,  you know what time their kids go to soccer practice,  you know what time they go to the bathroom,  you know what time their brother comes over for dinner every two, three times a week.  You have that information at your fingertips.  Yeah, you're watching it.  But this goes back to why I love my time in the Air Force  is because I was working ops, what I was doing was in relation to them  to make sure they came home.  So yeah, we would do strikes, but it was mainly called TIC, troops in contact.  So if we were getting hit up it's like, hey, you got a Marine Combat Engineer team  that had been blown up by some Daisy Chain IED,  get over there, see they're taking indirect fire and find them  and then it's like, okay, we see them firing, it's not our guys hit them.  That I think is honorable.  There are other things that I have done that are questionable.  Meaning you're told, all right, go for this target.  And that means you press a button and what happens?  A missile, an explosive, some kind?  I mean, you're going to get into things I know will never be allowed on film.  Okay.  But long story short is I remember one time we were after somebody who was redacted.  And we had him and we submitted the packet to take him out  and because of a certain foreign diplomat being in the nation  we were told we had to wait until he left because it would cause an international issue.  So Dylan's not like operating the trigger on the drone,  but what he's doing from what I understand?  Or were you?  No, so what I did was I confirmed who it was so that way the person would take the shot.  So he's creating these packages of intel and basically designating what the move  or the target should be hit or not hit.  You're not actually pressing the button that fires an explosive that blows something up.  No.  But your decision is key to that happening.  Without your decision, it doesn't happen.  And you've done that hundreds of times.  Unfortunately, probably yes.  At that point, you're not working for the Air Force anymore.  You're working for somebody else.  Can you say who that is or you'd rather not?  When I was in the Air Force, I was working for the Air Force under...  Redacted.  And then we're getting ahead of ourselves and this gets into other information.  I did end up doing it for...  An agency.  Multi-agency special access program under BA Systems,  which you guys have a copy of my resume that is cleared and you can put it up there into the people on film.  You guys can probably figure out who it is.  I just didn't want to leave that without making it clear.  Air Force was one thing.  You're doing things to protect our troops on the ground and go after bad guys.  Then it transforms into something else that causes you considerable emotional grief.  And you're still dealing with it.  I will probably deal with it the rest of my life.  It's also why I'm in this situation I'm in because I do not trust the people I did it for.  At what point did you get your Masters in National Security?  So I can get that.  I'll go back to imagery real fast and fill in that for you guys.  So when I came through tech school in 2010, there was not sensor ops and the sensor ops is a redacted.  But because the FMV program, that's what it's called, that is an imagery oriented mission.  So they would pull imagery analysts for it.  FMV is that full motion video.  Yep.  So I had to go through imagery analysis tech school.  So MSI, HSI, EO, IR, satellite, drone, manned aircraft, you name it.  If it is in the world of imagery for our government, I had to go through that tech school.  So looking at nuclear power plants, order of battle for air, ground, naval, basically whatever can come across the desk in a picture, we had to go through tech school for it.  And then when we went through there, depending on where you ended up, some of us were pulled into the drone program.  Image analysts, meaning you can see everything.  So let's say there's a home, there's a family lives in a home.  What of them suspected terrorist or terrorist leader?  You can see who's cooking dinner, who's coming in and out.  What kinds of things can you determine?  It depends on how long you're looking at them.  It depends on what you're shooting with.  It depends on what the tasking is.  A lot of times I'm working with second guys, human guys.  I mean, we're all kind of in a room together.  We know a little bit about what everybody does and you kind of pick up a little here and there.  You convey information to the redacted who presses the button.  But can you convey help?  Do you give them context?  Do you say, all right, this is how many people are in this building?  Yeah, that's part of the job.  And it depends on how you're looking at it.  How many people are in a vehicle?  How many people are in the home?  How many children are around?  How long had they driven?  It just depends.  So for example, you convey something like this.  All right, there's a vehicle.  There's a bad guy who's driving that vehicle, but also in it is a wife and three kids.  Do you convey that and let them make a decision?  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean, that decision on what to do with that is not mine to make.  Something I find interesting about Dylan's background is people talk about trained observers.  Like, how does he know what he saw was what it looks like?  And we see imagery all the time.  And at first, you and I are kind of stumped because we're not imagery analysts.  What the hell is that?  Specialists, but we got one right here.  So if, you know, something goes out into public and I showed Dylan, he can give an educated opinion.  So when I've showed him like the jellyfish after it was public or whatever it is that you and I put out to get his insights,  because he knows all of those systems like the back of his hand and he can tell you what you're seeing, what you're not seeing.  I will be interested on when George and I end up releasing more stuff and more as public after it's public, just what you think about it.  But so you've got that specialty as a trained observer on all these systems.  I understand you did a lot of work with the drone program.  And, but kind of what else are you like, what are the terms that we could say this is what Dylan did in his professional career.  So image analyst, image analyst, drone program, you know, I synthetic aperture radar SAR.  So, you know, taking shots through clouds and getting the elevation data back and reading that on how it looks.  And there's techniques you can do with that that is wild tracking people and seeing things.  Were you what they call an all source analyst or is that different?  I did end up doing that for a while when I got to DITRA, which is Future and things I found out related to this subject while I was at DITRA.  What's DITRA?  The Defense Threat Reduction Agency. And I was under redacted.  That is who I fell under. And again, we're getting way ahead of ourselves.  But I ended up doing that all source analyst. I ended up back over to Geospatial.  I've done a little bit cyber intel. I've done a little bit.  I've done a little bit of SIGIN because the SIGIN were coming at the geolocated and provide products for locations of phone data and all of that stuff.  From everybody I've talked with in, you know, kind of vetting you and getting to know you, you're reliable. You're really good at your job.  You've had a long time working as a patriot for our government in these high capacity places.  You also had to keep and maintain security clearances for our audience.  It's TSSCI with Polly, right? Which means?  I've been polygraphed, yep.  Right. Which means top secret?  Top secret, special compartment information with polygraph.  With polygraphs. You have to do that regularly and make sure that, you know, you're wound tight, you know, we're on the right ray and you're a good employee, right?  Yep. So a typical day at work when you report, do you know what you're going to be doing?  Or you come in and they say, all right, you're on this system. You're watching this stuff today.  Depends on the time of the year. Depends on what we were doing in the global war on terror. Depends on where I'm at.  But you're looking all over the world on different systems.  Predominantly Middle East, but if I got Iraq and other nations that were a part of the global war on terror.  But, you know, if we have an interest in seeing a picture of something, I could come into work and have to do something with it.  Do you ever look at Jeremy's house?  No, Intel Oversight, which gets funny is because that goes back to all of this stuff with UAPs over America.  You know, it's fun watching the imagery classify under Intel Oversight as you cross that wonderful border,  because you can actually see what gets censored out and what doesn't.  Are there systems that you would be required to look at that cover the U.S.?  Maybe terrorists, suspects floating around?  No. So I would have to have special authorities depending on the agency and now you're getting into a game  going back to the UFO subject and how things qualify in Department of Justice and the IC.  I know those programs exist. I know people have been in those programs.  I know how those programs work and the authorities with them. I never did it.  In general, conflict zones?  Even non-conflict zones. If you have an interest in a hurricane, the damage it did to some naval port or airport in the middle of the Pacific,  you know, that might pop up on my radar and I might have to do something with it.  And then you're working for someone else. Can you say who or...  Yeah, I guess we can go into that.  So this kind of gets into how I got into all of this mess.  So...  Redacted.  Summer of 2012.  The way they do operations stateside in that capacity is at 12-hour shifts.  So...  Redacted.  So four days on, three days off, three days on, four days off. It's a modified version.  Summer of 2012, we were weathered down. It's called WX.  And when we were weathered down doing ops, we would do a split shift for the 12-hour shift.  So I was an older airman. All my NCOs and some of the officers knew I might degree and knew I could have been an officer.  So at E4, I'm basically kind of there in charge but not in charge like Dylan's got it.  So I'd usually send...  I would tell everybody, all the sergeants, everybody, look, go home to your families, eat dinner, go hang out with them at 7 o'clock at night.  I live in the barracks. I have no kids. I'm not married.  So I would do the first six hours.  So that was from 7 o'clock at night till 1 in the morning.  And then half of us would work the first half of that 12-hour shift.  And then we would rotate and the second half would come in and work the second half.  So Summer of 2012, I worked the first half. We're weathered down. Nothing's happening. You're on call.  You got to stay away to be able to come back to the ops floor.  And I drive back to my barracks room and redacted.  And you come up the Jag office, the gym, and then you would make a right going to my barracks.  So I leave the ops floor 1-115 in the morning, drive past all this, go back home,  get to my barracks room, change out my uniform, grab my cigarettes, grab my phone, go outside,  1.30, 1.45 in the morning, and I go to smoke a cigarette in the gazebo right next to my barracks room,  these old decrepit barracks.  So I go in the gazebo and I'm sitting there and I'm smoking a cigarette.  I'm on the phone with my buddy who we've talked about.  And I'm looking at the flight line because that's where the entry point is for the gazebo.  And the entry point where you walk in faces the flight line and faces the NASA hangar behind it.  So from where I'm sitting, it's three blocks, four blocks up.  The Jag office, the gym, the flight line, the NASA hangar.  On my phone, smoking a cigarette, and I see a white light pop up from the NASA hangar.  It comes up about 100 feet and stops.  I know it was the NASA hangar because I have...  At 1.32 in the morning on a weeknight, it was a Tuesday, Wednesday night,  I am positive it came from there because I've...  And in my mind, I think, oh, weather balloon test, you're testing something.  No big deal.  So this white light pops up and stops 100 feet.  I light my cigarette, I finish my cigarettes about six, seven minutes after.  That's about how long it takes to smoke a cigarette.  And I start walking towards the flight line because I'm on call.  I have to go back to the ops floor as the weather clears.  And at night, I would walk the track because I have to stay awake.  I never rotated the days.  I'd listen to music or podcasts, whatever, and just walk the track, knock it, hassle, stay out of the road.  I start walking up to where this light is hovering above the NASA hangar.  And I get about two, three blocks in.  And on the right is the auto body shop.  So they had garages at Langley Air Force Base where you could pull your car in and pull the drain plugs and oil changes, all that.  As I'm walking up towards the light to go to the track on my left, the white light flies across the flight line to me.  And it flies right across the flight line to me.  And as it flies, it's 100 to 150 foot equilateral triangle appears right over me, 100 feet above me, 100 feet in front of me.  The triangle had black metallic flake paint.  I'm a car guy and it looked like that expensive, like classic look.  Like you could see the light glisten off of it.  Equilateral triangle.  I could only see the bottom and angles.  It was a 90 degree right angle all around.  I could not see the top of it.  There were four lights, one smaller light on each corner,  and then a larger second light, which was two to three times the size of the corner lights.  And in my estimation, it was about the size of a small size sedan.  So like a Nissan SCR Sentra, Nissan Altima, that was at the center.  All of them were white.  What was odd though is that when I'm looking at it, the way I have tried to describe it,  and I don't, words cannot describe it because it's so wild seeing,  is imagine taking a picture of the James Webb telescope,  where all those colors of galaxies are out there.  Imagine those colors make them yellow gold,  put them on top of the aircraft and make it a lava lamp,  because the whole outside had this yellow transparent glow coming all around the craft,  and it was pulsating.  So this thing flies to me, it's a light, all of a sudden while it's flying to me, this triangle appears.  I can't tell you if it's active camouflage.  I cannot tell you if it manifested around it.  The only thing I can tell you is that light came and a triangle appeared around it.  My cell phone gets incredibly hot and completely freezes and shuts down.  I'm under it and I, the first thought in my mind is literally, okay, so this is real too.  Like I've been in redacted.  So I've had access to things and I'm like, okay, another thing that's real.  Hours, meaning hours.  I would initially suspect so.  I mean, it was on the base due to things that I found out having been in government for long enough  and knowing certain truths and having been through the whistleblower process  and understanding questions and why they're asked and how they're asked.  I am now of the opinion that what I saw was not ours,  but this gets into a troubling precedent, which is if that one wasn't ours then why?  Redacted.  But I'm under it.  It's probably in front of me three, five minutes and I'm just looking at it.  There is no sound.  There is nothing.  It is just hovering there and it's just pulsating above me right above the Jag office and the gym.  Could it seem to be reacting to you because you'd seen it or?  I don't know.  You know, that is one of the questions, one of many questions that I have as a quote unquote  experiencer, as a whistleblower, as a veteran, as somebody who has been in close proximity to these,  as somebody who has had their life destroyed over this.  That is one of the questions I would love to know because it's one of the things that keeps me up at night,  which is why did it fly across the base to me?  You said before you've seen these balloons come out of the NASA facility.  They weren't glowing.  It would be like a white, you know.  Like a balloon.  Yes.  But this one was glowing and it seemed to have come out of that same spot.  Or do you know it came out of there?  What I am 100% sure of, I cannot tell you it came out of the hangar.  I am 100% sure it came from that hangar.  There is no doubt in my mind it was at that hangar.  Meaning it came out of the hangar?  Meaning it was housed there or it had been hovering there?  Could have been hovering there.  It could have been on the ground outside of it.  It could have come out from it.  I cannot tell you because I didn't see it.  But I know it came from that hangar.  And it shot off at the end.  Yes.  So I first see the light.  I finished my cigarette.  Seven, eight minutes.  I walk up.  This thing flies to me.  Triangle appears.  I am under it.  Three to five minutes.  And all of a sudden the center light flashes.  It flashes two to three times.  It shows this quick, like almost if you plug an electrical outlet in the wall,  you know that spark electricity.  It does that.  And that thing shoots off to commercial air jet level.  In my aero testimony, I said 20,000 to 30,000 feet.  I estimate commercial aircraft level because I've seen commercial aircraft flying around  the base.  That's usually what they cruise at.  And as it goes off, it gets to that flight level in seconds, like three seconds.  Easy.  And at that moment, I feel static electricity all over my body.  And I immediately, immediately smell a rainstorm lightning storm, like a strong lightning  thunderstorm that smell you smell after there's just lightning and just horrific, beautiful  thunderstorm.  I smell that sack electricity, still no noise, and it gets up to the flight level.  My phone, I'm able to reset and it gets up there.  And the only light I could see is the center light.  So I couldn't see the corner lights.  Just the center light.  If I did not witness it take off, that would have looked like a star.  Try to get my phone reset.  I get it reset.  I want to take a picture of it.  I can't make out anything.  And I kick myself to this day because I'm looking at my phone and I remember looking at it.  I'm like, man, should I keep this?  I'm like, no one's ever going to believe it.  You can't see anything.  And I was like, yeah, but the date and time are in there.  I'm an idiot and I erased it.  So it gets up to that flight level.  It pauses and it's there and I'm watching it.  And after a few minutes, it goes due east out over the bay, out into the Atlantic Ocean.  And I made the point to make sure because I know this is real.  I know this exists.  I've experienced it and I came forward out of concern for people's safety,  which is the only reason I came out of the shadows because of what was done to me and what I know is true.  I made the point to make sure that everyone I told is that did not go to Norfolk,  which is where the naval station is.  That didn't go up north towards the marine station.  That didn't go over the redacted.  That went due east out over the ocean.  And I just watch the same kind of trailer off like a satellite out over the ocean.  What do you do at the time though?  Is there a process that you would follow for something like that?  Hey, tell your commanding officer or file a written report or what?  So there's no process at all.  I told a couple of my friends and there was a couple sergeants who had heard me talking one night.  And, you know, I've talked with mutual friend who testified under oath about this.  One of them actually had told me, because I was getting medically discharged at the time,  he had said, Dylan, you never talk about this.  And I was like, funny, man.  I was like, what's it doing over our base?  Anybody who wants to talk to me, you have security forces, OSI, my clearances.  Like, he's like, no, trust me, don't talk about it.  I thought it was a joke.  Like, I'm like, you're not going to go and test aircraft in the middle of the night on Langley Air Force Base.  Like, apparently he was right, though.  Hindsight is 20-20, but yeah.  You work for the Air Force, you told us what you did, and then you're working for someone else.  At the time you saw this thing at Langley, it's an Air Force base, but you're not working for the Air Force at that time.  At that point, I was working for the Air Force.  Later, you work for somebody else and we've asked you a couple of times, do you not want to say who you work for?  I cannot say it because as of this time right now, I understand that that information is classified and it's not allowed out there.  I can say it's a multi-agency special access program under BAE, British Aerospace Engineering Systems.  So you don't want to cross, there's a line you don't want to cross because of legal ramifications or because you promised you would.  Both, and I still believe in national security, which is why I'm here.  It's why I went through the whistleblower process, it's why I'm so upset that so many whistleblowers have been let down,  it's why I'm upset that laws are not being followed, it's why I'm upset that SEC whistleblower payments,  which is 10% anybody who comes for with any information of financial abuse and wrongship should receive that.  There's a number of reasons, but ultimately I believe in the Constitution of the United States.  In a sense, you are a patriot, of course, you love your country, but you are a patriot in a sense that there's a limit to it.  And when people violate the Constitution or go against the law or treat people who are living up to their oaths poorly, threatening them, intimidating, then it has to come out.  Yeah, it's infuriated. People, there's a difference between being disgruntled and me being disgruntled and me releasing everything, names, locations, places, crimes that were committed,  sexual assaults I'm aware of, stalking I'm aware of, break lines being cut, it would be me releasing all of that.  And I'm not doing that, I am doing that because this needs to be told.  The people that are in these programs and the decision makers at Congress and the executive branch owe it to the American people, to the whistleblowers, to the veterans, to the service members,  to tell the truth and the capacity they can because this is coming out no matter what.  And when it does, if they are not a part of it, this is going to be a lot worse than it already is.  So you have direct knowledge of UAP being actual craft of unknown or non-human origin? From your official capacity of work, you have some direct knowledge of that?  100%, not only do I have it, I testified to it, I provided materials proving it and it was proven to me that what I provided was in fact true.  Who did you testify to list them out?  Senate staff, House staff, Arrow, and the ICIG.  Under oath.  Under oath, FBI was there, the ICIG was there, the DOD was there at points in time, staff members from armed services, intelligence.  Basically I went through the whole Kid and Kaboodle to tell the truth and get this on record because I have grave concerns for what is happening to people.  Is there something else in between that thing that you saw that went pshh, other experiences, things that you saw, either as a citizen or while working for the government that you want to share with us?  There are many, I think as of this time, what I will say is this.  I have direct firsthand knowledge and exposure to crash recovery, reverse engineering, integration of technology into  Redacted.  As well as the most important piece of technology on the planet and it's not the craft themselves.  It would be the power source.  You can make that assessment yourself.  So you saw these things in between when you became a whistleblower and went through that process after the Langley thing or explain that to us?  Alright, so it would be a long way to answer this, sir.  So because I was part of Redacted, I had to deploy under Redacted.  Part of that required getting my wisdom teeth removed.  When I had my wisdom teeth removed to deploy to Afghanistan, they cut the nerve in my face.  So I can't feel the right half of my face, left half of my face is numb.  I just can't feel, can't taste, teeth destroyed.  Why was that required?  Because from my understanding and the DOD, the way they explain it to me is the number one reason for people coming back from overseas is dental issues.  So to preemptively prevent people coming back from dental and impact their wisdom teeth and those issues, they remove them preemptively.  So I was required to get my wisdom teeth removed during that process.  They cut the nerve in my face.  Can't feel.  Around that time, preparing to deploy to Afghanistan, I also slipped a disc in my back.  So I slipped my disc, L5S1.  And long story short, I went up to Med Board.  I had to go to Specialist Enrichment.  I had to go to the Navy.  I went all over Southern Virginia trying to figure out what to do about my jaw and my teeth, my tongue, my mouth.  All on record.  And when I went up from Med Board, they had denied I ever had this surgery and kicked me out of the Air Force as a 10% disabled veteran.  Which they said my herniated disc wasn't even that bad.  And I had to fight the VA for over 10 years for them to even acknowledge I had the wisdom teeth removed.  Which is getting into things that are odd to say the least and what has happened to me since I saw that triangle.  And what has happened to me since I came into the information I came into.  Was there some kind of written record that you had seen that triangle that leads to complications for you?  Because you said you didn't really file an official report, you just told to people about it.  No, I never filed any official statement, not until much later 2021 time period.  And we'll get into that, which is after all this stuff happened to me on that ditch run.  I'm still paying attention because I know what's happening.  I'm looking at ATIP and OSAP and I'm monitoring files that are coming across.  I saw my clearances.  But nothing other than word of mouth or if there was something else that had happened that night that I'm unaware of, there should have been nothing official.  BAE is, you know, we talk about Lockheed and Northrop and the big companies, aerospace companies that you think those guys are the keepers of the secrets.  BAE does what?  BAE is UK's version of Lockheed and Northrop Grummond and they have an American subsidiary branch that's allowed to operate in America since, you know,  technically we don't have foreign governments working in secret, no foreign or no foreign areas.  But BAE is Britain's pretty much the largest aerospace company who is very well, probably very well informed on this subject.  British company that does a lot of work for the US government.  Yep.  And the British government, Five Eyes, Intelligence, Aerospace Engineering, I mean, it is the British version of Lockheed and Northrop.  You get hired by them to do what?  What's your job?  Full motion video analyst, intelligence analyst in a similar capacity that I did for the Air Force.  Are you, you're looking at sensor systems?  That is part of it, yes sir.  And again, in conflict zones or what?  Doing?  Yes.  Yeah.  Primarily conflict zones?  Primarily.  I mean, there's a lot with this whole thing and my time there that I'm not, I know is going to be so restricted and I don't want to give them a reason for them to come after me, but yeah.  So BAE, you're working in the United States for a British aerospace company.  The information though is shared with American intelligence?  Yes.  Yep.  And sometimes other nations, depending on what it is.  British, of course.  Five Eyes.  So Australia, Canada, Great Britain, New Zealand, US.  What are you seeing?  What are you looking at?  Redacted.  Did you like your work for BAE?  Early on I did.  And then things took a dramatic insane turn.  And at that point I became very disgusted and it got insane.  What was the term?  What did you do?  I found out that I was working illegally the entire time I was there.  So there is a process that you are supposed to have your clearance's house in called Scattered Castle or J-Pass that has changed since then.  And I ended up working over there and I was quite open about my experiences having seen what I've seen at Langley Air Force Base and elsewhere.  And about seven months into working there I found out that my clearance was revoked administratively and I was not in any system and no one could look me up.  So I was basically stuck working there indefinitely or I had to leave the IC completely.  Was this a situation where it sounds like administrative terrorism, where it sounds like some sort of purgatory where you're put into position, where you're technically illegally working, which means you can't go out and get other employees, you can't leave that job.  Is there something I'm missing?  Like why would you be put into this restricted category unless you had accidental exposure about direct UAP information including reverse engineering?  That is the best guess I have.  And the reason why I have that opinion is because I know people who worked in the legacy program that their careers were tamed, very, very, very similar things that were done to me were done to them.  So you were, he was exposed and I think we should talk about that.  Yeah, so you were exposed to what?  What did you see that, why would they take that step?  You're working for them, do it a good job, you like the work in general and then suddenly you learn out, I don't have a security clearance.  They just say, hey, what the hell? Where's my clearance?  Oh, I did and I was persona non grata.  New people were told they weren't allowed to contact me, not allowed to talk to me.  It's actually a joke.  The people that I'm still great friends with a lot of people I work there with and you could call me abrasive.  People love me or they hate me.  I'm going to tell you what it is.  I try to mitigate how rude it sounds, but the truth is the truth and some people love it, some people hate it.  But it is to this day a joke amongst my co-workers that I worked there with, which was they had it out for me.  Well, it has to be a reason.  Yeah, bottom line to do.  That is my impression is that they had it out for me because I was knowledgeable about the subject and the reality of it.  And I was talking about it fairly openly because to me it's not this big deal.  Like this is reality.  But you were exposed specifically to proof about UAP reverse engineering in official capacity,  meaning while you're at work and with those individuals.  Can you, I know that you've tried to do this a number of different ways.  Now you went to the ICIG, you've testified to Arrow.  What is it that you saw and found out and can tell us about?  To be continued in part two of our interview with whistleblower Dylan Borland.