I've always believed there had to be a better way to move an object from point A to point B.  There just had to be.  So I spent two decades looking at hidden momentum.  You do think you've discovered a propulsion mechanism that can get us interstellar travel.  I take those lifters and I put them in a plastic box and put it on a scale.  You turn it on, the thing lifts up, and the weight flatlines.  It does not move at all.  There's still about 200 micronewtons of force still inside.  How many variations of this experiment do you think you've tried?  We are close to 2,000.  2,000 instances of the experiment?  No, 2,000 variations.  Holy shit.  Two test articles.  Each one is tested multiple times.  If you were to apply that to a satellite in space in a zero-gravity environment.  It would accelerate with the power off.  Can't explain that to the scientific community.  I just can't.  The idea that you could just charge it up and leave it there and it gets thrust,  it hurts my brain to even imagine how is that possible.  These are very weird.  It's like you create this thrust mode that just keeps going.  I don't think I'm bending space-time.  Maybe I am.  For over a century, humanity's journey to the stars has been held hostage by a simple, unyielding truth.  Newton's third law.  For every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction.  It's the law that powers every rocket, every satellite, every probe we've ever launched.  And it's also the law that keeps us trapped here.  On Earth.  In order to get to the closest habitable planet in our very own Milky Way galaxy,  a place called Proxima Centauri b,  it would take you 50,000 to 80,000 years in a chemical combustion rocket.  You would die before even getting 1% of the way there.  And if you somehow figured out a way to live for thousands of years,  by the time you came back to Earth after a trip like that, it would be totally unrecognizable.  You'd be playing out the ending of the Planet of the Apes.  Yo, man.  To go anywhere in space, you have to carry fuel.  Massive amounts of it.  Over 90% of any rocket's mass at launch is just propellant.  Pure fuel.  Burned and ejected out of the back to push the remaining 10% forward.  Launching a rocket to get a satellite into space is like flying a fully loaded 747 to deliver a suitcase.  One of the challenges we have to solve is orbital refilling, where we dock on orbit and transfer propellant.  The modern king of rocketry.  And Mr. Occupy Mars himself, Elon Musk, has publicly stated that Newton's laws are the end-all, be-all for space travel.  For some reason, he's quite adamant about that.  There's no way around Newton's third law, really.  You basically have to expel mass.  The original godfather of American rocketry, Jack Parsons, believed this as well.  In 1936, he and some colleagues at Caltech began launching the first rocket tests in western Pasadena.  But what most people don't know is that a decade before Jack Parsons, in the 1920s, there was someone else at Caltech with some very different ideas for deep space travel.  Townsend Brown.  Townsend Brown.  Townsend Brown.  Townsend Brown.  There's a guy named Townsend Brown.  Okay, okay, Townsend Brown.  Brown had stumbled onto something that mainstream science still refuses to acknowledge.  A possible break in Newton's laws.  A new force.  Or perhaps, a way to manipulate gravity.  Gravity itself, with electromagnetism.  Unifying these two fundamental forces has been the holy grail of physics for the last century.  What Einstein died searching for.  Townsend Brown discovered that when you apply a high voltage to certain asymmetric capacitors, they produce thrust.  No fuel, no exhaust, no propellant, just electricity.  Converted directly into motion.  A new model for space propulsion that could eliminate crude chemical combustion.  Forever.  Brown called his anti-gravity work, electrogravitics.  Meanwhile, physics textbooks called it impossible.  And because of that, he was dismissed, ridiculed, and eventually erased from the official story of physics.  But if you dig a bit deeper, and read his incredible biography by Paul Shatskin, you start to piece together a very different picture.  One in which Townsend Brown isn't easily dismissed as an amateur quack.  In fact, his work is.  His work was witnessed by the highest levels of government and military.  Now we're getting some interesting territory.  People like notorious Air Force chief of staff, Curtis LeMay, who courted Brown constantly.  People like Edward Teller, the father of the hydrogen bomb.  Bill Lear, the founder of the first private jet.  And Agnew Bonson, founder of the Institute of Field Physics at North Carolina.  A lieutenant colonel from Wright Airfield, who went on to become a general, named Victor Bertrandius.  Witnessed Brown's gravitator experiments in Los Angeles in 1952.  He was quoted as saying,  Believe it or not, I think I just saw a flying saucer, and it frightened me.  And if that's not all, we have audio of a deathbed confession from French aerospace executive, Jacques Cornillon,  who witnessed Brown's successful experiments in a vacuum chamber in 1956 in Paris, explicitly stating he witnessed a positive result.  So that was a positive result.  This is to go along with an 120-page report around that specific experiment that's widely available online today.  Nonetheless, stigma, tech protection, and scientific suppression are all very real.  Brown's work is still likely classified by the Navy to this day.  Over the last 70 years, Brown's experiments never went away.  They just went underground.  They've been replicated all over the world in places as far as Japan,  but usually by persistent hobbyist teams or aerospace engineers stringing some funds together and operating out of pure passion.  But in deep black American aerospace, I believe Brown's work still exists in the form of whispers and vital sub-compartments where it gets explored further.  Okay, so that's the backdrop.  Newton has us stuck on Earth.  Industry titans like Elon get stuck on Earth.  NASA can't be bothered to explore new propulsion modalities.  And Townsend Brown is a total ghost relegated to quacky UFO circles.  That is, until today.  Inside a quiet lab in Florida, NASA's lead electrostatic scientist, a man named Dr. Charles Buehler, has been running the same gravity-altering tests as Thomas Townsend Brown.  When we see about 0.1 grams, that corresponds to about one millinewton of thrust.  Only this time with modern instruments, more rigorous controls, and decades of electrostatics expertise from his work at Kennedy Space Center behind him.  And what he's measuring is thrust.  Real, repeatable, directional thrust.  No combustion, no reaction mass, the future of space travel.  We say we have an energy crisis.  Oh my God, the energy crisis.  Well, it could be considered an energy crisis, but it's really a force crisis.  It's a transportation crisis.  How do you get an object from here to here?  At his company, Exodus Propulsion Technologies, Buehler isn't just replicating Townsend Brown's work.  He's validating it, scaling it, showing literal weight loss on scales due to upward thrust.  Again, Buehler is not some mid-level guy at NASA.  He's the lead electrostatic scientist in the entire agency.  And you're also, I believe, about to be the president of the Electrostatics Society?  That's correct.  And he's contributed two fundamental principles to the field of electrostatics that are now widely accepted.  The question is no longer whether the Buehler-Brown effect is real or not.  The question is, where could this lead humanity?  How can we scale this up?  And what is the theoretical physics behind it?  On this last question, Charles goes deeper on this show than he has in any other interview,  on his own quantum electrodynamics space theory.  And I brought in my friend, a brilliant MIT-trained physicist named David Chester,  to help stress test and sharpen Buehler's theory.  What happens when propulsion no longer requires fuel?  When the tyranny of rocket equations finally breaks?  Without further ado, please welcome this week's amazing American alchemist,  NASA and Exodus Propulsion's very own Dr. Charles Buehler.  Before we continue, I want to take a second to thank one of my favorite products in the world,  Ketone IQ, for sponsoring today's episode.  Ketone IQ is one of the very few things I use that gives me clean, sustainable energy without the crash.  It's just this little shot, and I take a drink, and I feel like I'm on fire.  No ups, no downs, no nervous system weirdness.  Just clean, clear mental energy.  The reason it works is pretty simple.  It gives your brains ketones,  which are, almost by definition, its most efficient fuel source.  Instead of pushing your system, it actually feeds it.  In fact, your body endogenously produces ketones.  So when you drink this, it supports deep focus, long conversations, and sustained mental performance.  It was originally developed through a multi-million dollar military program  designed for high-stress environments where cognitive performance really matters.  And today, it's used by founders, researchers, podcasters like myself,  and people who need it.  I always take a sip of one of these things before long podcasts.  This product is also really personal for me because I've known the founders, Jeff and Michael, for over a decade.  These guys are awesome, and for as long as I've known them,  they've tried every supplement, biohack, and nootropic under the sun.  So it was a pretty good signal to me that they decided to start a company around ketones.  I use Ketone IQ regularly.  It's like a mental cheat code, and it's genuinely one of the cleanest energy sources I've ever found.  So before we get back into the episode,  please visit ketone.com slash alchemy for 30% off your subscription order,  plus receive a free gift with your second shipment.  Again, that's ketone.com slash alchemy for 30% off your order.  Or you can find Ketone IQ at Target stores nationwide and get your first shot free.  Seriously, this stuff works.  Thanks so much to Ketone IQ for sponsoring today's episode.  Everyone talks about the Bermuda Triangle,  but no one warns you  about its colder, weirder cousin.  In the heart of Alaska lies the Alaska Triangle,  where planes disappear, hikers vanish,  and the only thing that shows up reliably  is my Wild Alaskan Company seafood box.  I'm being serious here, guys.  I definitely don't trust flying over portals,  but I do trust this fish.  Most seafood?  I can't even look at it without wondering if it was farmed in a glowing vat near a nuclear power plant.  But this fish?  100% wild caught.  Flash frozen off the boat.  Delivered straight to my door like it teleported through one of Eric Davis' wormholes,  and it still tastes better than just about anything your cousin microwaves.  No antibiotics.  No additives.  No fish farm sludge.  Just real fish.  Coho salmon,  Pacific halibut,  and my favorite, the sockeye salmon.  Not all fish are the same.  Get seafood you can trust.  Go to wildalaskan.com slash jesse for $35 off your first box of premium wild caught seafood.  That's wildalaskan.com slash jesse for $35 off your first order.  Thank you so much to Wild Alaskan Company for sponsoring this episode.  I'm here with Charles Buehler who, this is a holy grail interview for me.  I'm like a kid on Christmas because it's been like the search for Buehler.  Ever since, you know, we connected a couple years ago because I made this Townsend Brown documentary.  And as you know and my audience knows, I'm obsessed with this mid-century inventor Thomas Townsend Brown.  I think he found a real force that lies outside of either the four fundamental forces,  might have merged gravity and electromagnetism, I don't quite know.  But something that transcends kind of our chemical combustion modalities that will take us interstellar.  And...  As soon as I came out with that, a bunch of people hit me up and they're like,  you got to talk to Charles Buehler.  He's the lead electrostatic scientist at NASA.  And he's been doing this experiment, but his own kind of version of it,  his updated better version of it in a vacuum chamber he's had access to for a decade plus.  And so we connected a little bit.  We kind of fell off.  I'm so grateful to have you here now.  It's just a total honor.  And you're also, I believe, about to be the host.  You're going to be the president of the Electrostatic Society too?  That's correct.  So you have the credentials to say, if you're saying that we found another force,  you have as good of credentials as anybody.  Is that right?  I mean, don't be humble.  It's not for me to say.  I think I know enough about electrostatics to say that, but we're always still learning.  What's your current job title?  So I am the lead scientist of NASA's Electrostatics and Surface Physics Laboratory.  I'm part of Swamp Works at Kennedy Space Center.  So before I go on, I have to make everyone aware that this is not affiliated with NASA,  any of this work that we're doing.  Absolutely.  It's not sanctioned by NASA, and we are not giving any credence to NASA in this.  Disclaimer accepted.  I think maybe it's a little bizarre that NASA wouldn't want to immediately kind of jump on this work.  Well, they do.  But they're probably going to be a customer later on.  We're not working this technology at NASA, at least not in my laboratory.  But you are, is it safe to say you're the lead electrostatics scientist at all of NASA?  I would say that.  I mean, we only have one electrostatics lab in all of NASA, and I lead it.  And you run it.  So by default, yes.  Yeah.  Okay.  So again, if this sort of force were attributable to basic electrostatics, you would know.  Sure.  Let's back up a second.  And, you know, that's a really impressive, cool title.  What does somebody who leads electrostatics at NASA do?  Our lab does a lot of things.  It was founded about 26 years ago by Dr. Carlos Gaye, a physicist who spent a summer working at Kennedy Space Center.  Came back the following year and started the lab.  We do electrostatics at NASA, at Kennedy Space Center, because of incidents that occurred in the 1960s.  So there was an incident that trapped 11 people into space.  There was a spin test facility where they accidentally set off a rocket, a solid rocket.  And there were some casualties there.  So we also had the Apollo fire that you've heard about.  So we've lost, I think, 14 people to electrostatics at NASA.  So Kennedy Space Center has kind of led this effort to study this phenomena and test it.  And a lot of the tests that we've been doing date to the 1960s, long before they had standardized testing from electrostatics.  So Dr. Carlos Gaye formed a research arm of that test about 26 years ago.  Aren't there also issues with lunar dust, you know, getting attracted to the lunar lander and electrostatics sort of allowing or removing the dust or something like that?  Is that a thing?  Yes.  So when I get on the stand and I talk about these things on my pedestal,  I always talk about this.  I talk about the safety and need to study electrostatics.  But no one pays us to study electrostatics.  You know, it's a case-by-case thing where people will give us funding to look at and investigate just like any other investigation.  But it doesn't pay the bills.  So what we've done is we've understood some of the needs for NASA that are in the electrostatics realm.  For example, the dust mitigation aspect.  So dust is considered one of the two greatest challenges that have to be overcome.  For long-term human presence on the moon or Mars.  The dust was very problematic for the Apollo astronauts where they couldn't even do a fourth EVA.  They could do three.  They couldn't do four.  Dust would clog the suits and get into the arms, into the helmet, into the joints.  And it just prevented further EVAs, extra vehicle activities.  So the dust mitigation is a serious one.  It's taken by NASA.  I think every center is working on it.  But we actually have many dust mitigation technologies that we've developed over the years.  Our primary one is the Electrodynamic Dust Shield, the EDS.  So this uses a surface that has embedded electrodes inside of it that lifts and removes dust without moving parts or gases or fluids or anything.  Wow.  So we can embed that into glass.  We can embed that into thermal radiators, solar panels, solar rays, all kinds of materials.  Very cool.  And wasn't there recently like a lunar dust mission?  That's right.  So we almost, just over a year ago, we landed our EDS payload.  It had nine EDSs on there.  So there were six EDSs used to get dust onto us so we can use our EDS to show that we can get it off.  Cool.  So we tested a thermal radiator EDS.  We tested a glass EDS on the moon and a camera EDS.  So we tested the technology on the lunar surface.  Successful.  Very cool.  That's amazing.  So you work 25 years on something, you finally get it to the moon and it works.  You're pretty happy.  Congratulations.  Yeah.  It would suck if it didn't.  After 25 years, it's a lot of sunk cost and a lot of time and effort and energy.  One other very credibility enhancing thing about you that I think it's really important to note is you've contributed to the field of electrostatics outside of this anomalous force that you're talking about.  Is that right?  That's right.  So, you know, I've been in electrostatics.  I've been in electrostatics for 26 years and it's been around obviously for a very long time, but it doesn't get the attention that the other scientific disciplines get, I don't feel.  It shouldn't be the case where I come in as a young kid and I should not be discovering phenomena in electrostatics, you know, like I did with the showing that there's no brush discharges in high vacuum conditions.  High vacuum conditions.  I know obviously people don't have access to that.  But it was not, you know, just me.  I generally accepted that this did not happen under vacuum, you know, pulling off charges from an insulator.  We know that happens very well in air.  Why doesn't that happen in high vacuum when we were able to show that you cannot get the brush discharges the way you do in vacuum as you do air?  It's more of a gas breakdown effect, which could be, you know, expected, but it was never shown.  So it's a little bit surprising.  And you were the first person that showed that.  As far as I can tell.  Yeah.  In the literature.  So, and that's, you know, obviously because it happened.  I had interest to do that for the NASA mission.  Not a lot of people want to do electrostatics in high vacuum, but it's something I love to do every day.  Clearly.  And the other phenomena that I discovered, which I thought would be child's play for sure, would be the fact that if you take a vat of particles of all the same size and tilt them, they would roll over top of each other.  And the ones that do the rolling are positive.  And the ones left behind are negative.  This is very intriguing because for particle charging dynamics, we know that in volcanoes and cloud formation, the larger particles will become positive and the smaller ones will become negative.  So there's a size difference.  We don't exactly know why it occurs, but I was the first to show it has nothing to do with size.  It has to do with dynamics.  So the particles that partake in the interactions more often will become positive than the ones that are negative.  But do not.  So if you have a cloud mixture of bigger particles, giant spheres with small particles, the bigger ones are getting bombarded a lot.  So you'll have the ability to sample more than the smaller ones.  The bigger ones will be positive and the smaller ones will be negative.  There's some basic band theory reasons why that might happen.  Surface state theory.  But no one's ever showed that.  What are the practical implications of both of those kind of more conventional contributions to electrostatics?  Probably.  Maybe electrostatic beneficiation.  That's where you separate materials.  We do that a lot of times when we separate plastics.  When you recycle them, you can chop them up and you can tell the high density from the low density polyethylene by tribocharging them together into fine particles, splitting them in a field.  One goes one way, one goes the other.  So you can separate plastics that way.  There's a lot of different uses of tribocharged electrostatically charged materials for industry.  That's one case.  Obviously explains lightning, cloud to ground lightning, volcanoes and things of that nature.  So there's a lot of interest in our community on the tribo electrification of materials, especially for the moon, Mars programs.  How does, because you're honestly, you're probably living, you know, the dream of, you know, many nerdy kids in their bedrooms right now, you know, thinking about NASA and, you know, working and, you know, sort of cool physics.  And electrostatics doing stuff for them.  What's the, how, what's your journey there?  How did, how did you get hooked up with NASA?  You know?  Yeah.  That's a long one.  Okay.  Well, essentially I've always had a fascination with space as a kid.  I've always have.  And that didn't end when I went to graduate school and after I graduated.  So, you know, my PhD is in theoretical condensed matter physics.  Right.  And I got that at Florida State University while working at the National High Magnetic Field Lab.  And after that, you know, the grad students, we went different directions.  Some stayed in academia, some, you know, got jobs, you know, in industry or whatnot.  And I decided to go to NASA.  And there was an opening for a postdoc and the electrostatics lab under Dr. Carlos Calle.  He's trying to start that laboratory back in Florida.  I was living in Tennessee at the time.  I said, oh, it's a chance to get into NASA, see what it's about.  You know, what was there to learn on electrostatics?  Everything's known.  It's Maxwell's equations.  There can't be anything to learn there.  And when I got there, I realized that even the most fundamental studies in electrostatics were not complete.  Even understanding how you rub two materials together and you separate them.  One's plus, one's minus.  How does that even happen?  They didn't even know if it was the electrons responsible, ions, material transfer, all the above, none of the above.  So there was a lot to learn.  So I found it to be a very interesting field of physics that the mainstream community doesn't care too much about.  So I found it as a nice way to learn and to learn something new.  And that's what got me excited about electrostatics once I got there.  And what really got me excited is it could help people.  It could solve problems.  That's what electrostatics does.  It solves problems.  And it's involved in just about every industry, whether it's making the dust masks for the –  those are made by 3M, those N95 masks fighting COVID.  Those are electric filters.  So you actually make those using electrostatics.  And they actually work for eight or nine hours because they can trap those nanometer particles.  You don't know these things.  Microphones are all electrostatics properties.  That's an electorate.  So there's so many different fields that electrostatics dives into.  And it was very useful for us to, as NASA, go to these electrostatics conferences where you have the pharmacy industry there.  The biologists are there.  Chemists are there.  It's a very wide, open discipline because they all need help in electrostatics.  And they're all advancing that field.  And so I could use what I learned there to apply to NASA.  So whether it's the EDS technology that came from that community or other technologies that we learned from that community,  like the electrostatic precipitation, that's air filtration.  There are so many, so many technologies that come out of that field.  So it was originally discovered by – founded by the –  a scientist at Xerox back in the 70s.  So it has a very rich, deep history in America in that north New York area with Cornell and – or not Cornell, Corning, Kodak.  And these companies that are very prominent back in the 60s and 70s formed together this electrostatic society.  And they share that technology with people.  It's fascinating.  Yeah, I always found it interesting that Townsend Brown, along with his thruster work,  which, you know, involved, you know, what he thought would lead to interstellar travel,  he also, I believe, was responsible for the patents that ended up, you know,  Sharper Image ended up buying them.  And it was like an ion, you know, air filter or something.  And so I found that really fascinating.  At what point did you get the idea that maybe there was another force here  that could take us to the stars and that chemical combustion and the rockets,  that you don't work maybe directly on, but you work, you know, around with your work at Kennedy Space Center,  might not be, you know, the frontier of space travel?  I always knew there was something else, something more than just Newton's laws.  So I kind of tailored my career just to try and understand physics enough to see if this –  to see if something else could be done, just anything.  So this goes way back into high school.  So I started doing tests in high school.  I started doing tests in college.  I built rigs in graduate school.  So it never really ended.  But – so I continued to do it.  But it's hard to say when did it start.  I've always believed – it's just a belief that there had to be a better way to move an object from point A to point B.  There just had to be.  Newton's laws is great.  Relativity wasn't very useful to me, probably because I just didn't know it.  But electricity and magnetism seemed to have a nice appeal.  Yeah.  Because, you know, it's 19th century.  There had to be a 19th century equivalent to it, to momentum conservation.  It had to be.  So I spent, I don't know, two decades looking at the conversion from field momentum to mechanical momentum, if you're familiar with that field.  So essentially, you know, you can convert momentum stored in the field into real momentum.  They've done that in the 70s with the angular momentum.  But the linear analog to it was always hindered by a third momentum called –  hidden momentum.  So I went out on a limb and tried to find systems that did not have hidden momentum.  Fascinating.  Well, we're going to dive deep into that and your theories around it.  But I think first, just, you know, for the lay audience, mass ejection is the current kind of paradigm.  And so it's, yeah, it's Newton's third law.  And it's just, you know, you expel a ton of mass.  A lot of these rockets, like, look at, like, you know, SpaceX's, you know, Starship.  It's mostly fuel.  In the rocket itself.  That's most of the tonnage is just fuel.  And then you obviously have a, you know, a decently high payload capacity on top of that.  But that's a very small percentage of the overall rocket.  And so it's very inefficient from that standpoint.  And then because you have a limited amount of fuel, you can't really get to, like, Proxima Centauri b.  And if you could, it would take you 80,000 years with current speeds.  And that's, like, the closest habitable planet.  So I always say this.  You know, bring these things up.  Because even if Elon Musk were sitting in your chair, there's no argument he would have to defeat.  That's just physics.  You know, like, there's nothing he could say to that.  And so I think what you're looking into is, like, the most, you know, people can come back with first principles arguments and say you're wrong.  But, like, it's the most important thing.  For space, it absolutely is.  There's no question.  Because, like you said, I think it's 95% of a rocket's mass is just fuel.  Yes.  And it's, you expel it almost immediately and then you're done with it.  So then you're just out using inertia to get you wherever you need to go unless you have a little bit of fuel to get back.  But, you know, just the amount of fuel it's going to take to get to Mars.  How many starships it's going to take that have to be fueled just to get to Mars.  It's just astounding.  It's an incredible amount of massive fuel.  Yeah.  I mean, just to the moon.  I don't know if you know this.  No.  But the starship burns nine-tenths of its fuel tank.  It goes into low Earth orbit.  Then it does butt-to-butt refueling with another starship that goes up, burns nine-tenths of its fuel tank.  And then that gets disposed of.  So you end up with two-tenths.  You have to do that eight more times.  Then you have, you know, a full tank.  And then that goes to the moon.  And that's just the moon.  That's not even Mars.  Oh, it's astounding, the numbers I've seen.  It's astounding.  It doesn't seem rational.  It doesn't.  And you never bet against Elon.  You know.  You never bet against any engineering feat.  You know, people were saying starship itself wouldn't work.  And the Pez dispenser flap that allowed the Starlinks to come out was like, you know, that would get ripped off.  And that there are all these things they had.  And it seems like it's starting to work.  You know, it has orbited Earth.  And then there's still, you know, modifications and updates they need to make.  So, you know, not pouring cold water on that engineering effort.  But, again, I do think from a physics perspective,  from a pure design perspective, if there is this other force,  we should obviously be looking into it.  I mean, there's got to be a better way.  And I always believed, ever since I've started studying science,  that there has to be another way.  Even as a young kid.  Totally.  It doesn't make sense.  Yeah.  I agree.  It just doesn't make sense.  So I kind of just tailored my career just understanding science,  what we knew about it, everything that I could.  So, clearly you had this kind of imagination.  And just preconceived idea that maybe we could transcend the limits of chemical combustion.  Maybe there was something sitting in electromagnetism, this 19th century modality.  Describe, and hopefully in detail, kind of in visceral detail,  the first time you witnessed this force and what it felt like.  I would say the first time I witnessed it, or a force,  based on the theory that I had,  was probably 2010.  That's wild.  So that was 2010 with my brother-in-law.  Future brother-in-law.  We weren't married then.  But he was in the laboratory working with me,  and I set up an experiment and I had him run it.  Now the other scientist I was working with on another project  thought I was just full of BS,  which is perfect, fine.  So he did not help us at all.  You know, he's a seasoned physicist.  You know, very well known.  He's known in his field.  And just thought I was just doing garbage.  And that's fine.  I don't care.  So I still had, you know, my brother-in-law, Nathan,  do the experiment in the laboratory.  And we were looking at a laser on a wall  so you can see small displacements of force in a chamber.  It wasn't an air chamber.  It wasn't a vacuum chamber.  And he did the test and we saw the laser move.  Well, that's pretty cool.  It's supposed to do that, I thought.  And my colleague,  Dr. Clements Sid,  stopped what he was doing,  went over to Nathan,  okay, you've done this, you've done this,  okay, now we got to do this.  He was completely immersed in that experiment after that.  Yeah, wow.  It was like, what is happening here?  This is really crazy.  Something is weird.  So that was the first time.  That was very, very exciting for me  because it was the first time we'd all seen it.  And it happened to be a world-class scientist there  to help us, you know.  It was actually like, wow, what happened here?  So you kind of, you converted him almost,  at least into thinking it was worthy of inquiry.  I didn't need to say anything else after that.  Yeah, that's amazing.  Is he now a believer in...  Oh, I think so.  He's seen it a few times.  And what's his background?  He is an electrostatics expert.  Okay.  He is my mentor.  And what's his name?  Dr. Sid Clements.  Dr. Sid Clements, okay.  Yeah, he is my mentor.  So that's where I learned electrostatics.  That's wild.  But he saw your experiment and he was like,  oh my God, there's something else here.  There's something there.  There's something there.  It's exciting.  It was an exciting moment.  That's incredibly exciting.  And so you see this,  and what do you think is the next step at that point?  Because, you know, you see this little displacement,  this laser displacement based on this possible force.  Do you design a new experiment right after that?  We design many experiments after that.  It led us down many different paths.  You know, that's kind of how this goes.  If you don't know exactly what's happening,  it can lead you down different paths.  Some were successful,  some were moderately successful,  and some weren't.  Really didn't hit too much success after that  until I met Andrew.  Okay.  Here's the story with that,  if you're interested.  Very.  So we had a colleague,  Andrew and I,  a friend named Mike.  He knew about us working on this independently for years  and never told us.  Never did.  He wanted to see if we can do it independently,  you know, like a race against,  I don't know who.  So he was playing dumb.  He was playing dumb.  He knew about this force and he was just like,  let's see how far they get.  He knew Andrew was working on it.  He knew I was working on it.  He just wanted to see who was,  you know, who would win the race.  Oh, Jesus.  That's like this like Machiavellian level,  4D chess going on.  You know, and Mike,  his excitement was that, you know,  how we were not,  we were both working at NASA or as contractors  or been at NASA.  And he was just super excited that we were not  doing this at NASA.  It's like, oh, this has a chance.  Because once you get a NASA and get a bureaucracy  and get in the government,  there's a lot of,  a lot of ways that can be hindered.  So he was loving that we decided to do that  outside of work.  Of course, at the time I wasn't working at NASA.  I was a consultant for ExxonMobil.  But so we worked together  because Andrew needed an electrostatics guy.  Andrew knew he was getting into the realm  of electrostatics.  What was Andrew's background?  Andrew?  Yeah.  Andrew, he is an engineer.  Okay.  He has been an engineer for gosh,  35 years or so.  And he goes by Drew.  Drew.  And he,  so he wasn't getting into this via electrostatics.  If that's the case,  what exactly was he doing?  Well, he was using the term electrogavitics.  Oh, interesting.  So this is the Thomas Townsend Brown.  So he's in that,  he's in that,  it was in that camp.  I love it.  I'm in that camp.  I'm not exactly there,  but yeah,  yeah,  yeah.  I might move there.  We'll see.  I don't know.  I'm still on the fence on the gravitics part.  We'll,  we'll,  we'll,  we'll meet in the middle.  We'll figure it out.  Yeah.  To me,  it was a little bit pretentious.  It's like,  okay,  you're doing gravity and with electromagnetism.  Maybe.  So you meet Drew and then what happens?  So at the time I was working with the,  the field momentum,  converting it to linear momentum stuff.  I wasn't in the gravity world.  I was in the field momentum world.  So we go to Drew's house.  I take my wife and we spent,  you know,  four or five hours looking at his setup,  looking what he's doing.  Um,  and,  um,  and I gave him a lot of pointers.  You could try this,  try that,  try this,  you know,  all the things I would do in electrostatics to help him along.  His experiment looked very different than mine.  His was just a needle,  high voltage needle in a,  in a,  in a Teflon casing.  Um,  I said,  you know,  it's pretty interesting.  Um,  if he's getting forces or that,  that's kind of interesting.  I don't know how you would,  until my wife told me as we're leaving the driveway,  my wife was like,  isn't that the same force you're working on?  Just manifest it differently.  She's a physicist too.  She's the best.  Wow.  So she like,  we go back and forth on these things.  Is she at NASA as well?  She is.  Wow.  What does she do there?  She's in the launch services program.  Cool.  So she doesn't have her PhD in physics,  but,  um,  she's taken engineering physics and undergrad.  And she's really good at math.  So if I need help with math,  I just like,  Hey,  Janessa,  help me with this.  Help me with this integral.  She'll have like a baby on her arm.  Okay,  fine.  I'll do it for you.  That's awesome.  She'll come in and look at the whiteboard.  She's like,  this is not right.  So she's very smart.  It's fun to bounce stuff off her.  Um,  but,  uh,  you know,  she,  she was clear.  She's like,  no,  you,  you should look at this,  your force that you're trying to do with his setup.  See if you're working on the same thing,  just a different twist.  Well,  that can't be right.  So I went back to my lab and I made a needle,  but I did it differently using what I thought would work.  And I would,  you know,  I put a,  this videos of this on our website,  you put a,  a tube over the end of the needle and you put Scotch tape on the tube.  So there's no,  I am when getting out and you shove the needle in that tube,  you encase the darn tube.  Then I cranked up my power supply and that thing moved three,  four feet in the air.  And I sent a video to Drew.  It says,  and Drew was like,  Oh,  wow.  Um,  so you have achieved how much force roughly now with your current  experiments.  Additive somewhere to five to 10 million Newton range.  Okay.  And so for people listening,  if you were to apply that to like a satellite in space in a microgravity  or zero gravity environment,  that would be huge.  Sure.  You would be able to do.  Yeah.  Initial markets.  That's what we're comfortable with.  We're a space company.  Uh,  we're a space agency,  different levels,  not just NASA,  but you know,  the peripherals.  And this is where we're comfortable with.  There's definitely a,  when we say,  um,  when do we hit unity?  Well,  we've hit unity for space,  unity for moon,  Mars,  all of these places.  So we can make flying cars in the moon and Mars and all of that.  Um,  so it's a very exciting place to be right now.  Yep.  Without any significantly huge development.  It could theoretically lead to deep space exploration.  Sure.  You could,  um,  help maintain orbits for satellites where there's orbital decay.  That's what our,  that's what our hope is.  Sure.  Okay.  And you can move these satellites maybe,  um,  to other orbits as well.  Like there's a,  there's a company called impulse space.  They're,  they're like,  you know,  they do like kick stages where you would move,  you know,  between orbits where maybe you'd go up on SpaceX ride share with another group of satellites,  but you'd want to move and do a dedicated orbit.  You could use a thruster,  like this to do something like that.  No doubt.  That's what our goal is.  Super cool.  And then what about like replacing rockets?  Could we ever do that with this?  Well,  if we get earth unity,  we won't need rockets,  right?  That's true.  You have to think about things a little differently.  Um,  but could,  could the 10 million Newton's of thrust turn into Newton's of thrust?  And could we end up launching things into space with this,  you know,  Exodus method or this other,  this other source,  our main goal,  to,  to try to do that,  you know,  that's where we,  the self launchers is what we call it.  Do you have blueprints around this self launcher?  Do you have a sense of the energy requirements or anything like that?  Or we,  we don't.  Okay.  But we are on the path.  So we know what we need to do.  We just have to go set out and do it.  Have you gone up in over the 2000 iterations?  Have you gone up in million Newton's of thrust?  Like,  okay.  So you have a sense of the levers to get more thrust.  There are levers and there are several.  Uh-huh.  We're trying to optimize those.  And what are the primary levers?  There's like,  we talked about voltage,  uh,  the materials properties,  breakdown,  strength of materials,  um,  the type of signals we send,  the physical limits on the materials.  Oh,  there's so many.  What are the ideal materials for this sort of experiment?  Well,  we're dealing with high voltage,  so we need materials with high dielectric breakdown strength,  but we also have permittivity issues.  We have to contend with,  uh,  geometry issues.  We have to contend with static dissipation issues.  We have to contend with,  there are a lot of other issues and that's just the DC.  When you get to,  uh,  you know,  other frequencies or you get to other exotic types,  you know,  charge injection,  electrics,  things can get even wackier.  Yeah.  So,  um,  we are looking at some of the interesting materials now that have other properties,  which I'm going to keep to ourselves for now,  but it's something that's very,  very interesting for now.  Just to see if it goes anywhere.  It could lead to nowhere.  Yeah.  But,  um,  we're just looking at it.  Cool.  You know,  there's other things out there.  In the Townsend Brown context,  barium titanate and bismuth often come up.  Are either of those relevant to your experience as well?  We have some,  some,  uh,  experiments with barium titanate a couple of years ago.  Okay.  It's a good high,  uh,  permittivity powder.  Mm-hmm.  Um,  I don't know what the results of those were.  There weren't,  uh,  particularly interesting.  What was the other one you said?  Uh,  bismuth.  Oh,  bismuth.  Yeah.  I love to test with some bismuth.  Um,  there's some cool things that,  that I found,  the arts,  parts,  materials.  Yep.  Um,  which is kind of neat,  because it has some weird geometries in there,  which I would project that we would have needed.  Mm-hmm.  But to see that in real life already made,  I was like,  oh,  that's kind of cool.  Can't wait to go test those exotics,  but that's down the road for us.  Yep.  We,  we're gonna try to stay focused and do what we're good at right now,  and then work on the more exotic stuff later,  I think.  And so,  in doing these experiments,  uh,  did you have access to a vacuum chamber?  Because I,  I feel like it's been a lot of,  the,  the reason,  you know,  everybody always questions me on this.  They're like,  this experiment sounds very simple,  because I always bring up the Townsend Brown experiment.  And they're like,  why has nobody done it yet?  And I,  say,  I give two reasons.  I say,  people always try to explain it away via the ion wind.  And it's so similar to the ion wind related experiments,  that it's easy to do that.  It's always easy to say there's ambient ions in there,  there's ionization in the vacuum.  That's number one.  And then number two,  access to an industrial grade vacuum chamber is pretty limited.  And it's obviously very expensive.  And so,  did you have access,  uh,  you know,  based on your kind of NASA background?  Yes.  You know,  Drew and I have access to a chamber.  He's got one at his house.  He's very resourceful.  Amazing.  He funded it himself.  It's a nice size vacuum chamber.  He also has a second one that he's gonna get online soon.  Which is almost a walk-in size vacuum chamber.  So,  very pricey,  but hopefully with some funding we can get that thing,  um,  up to par and running.  Um,  but yes,  we do have access to a high vacuum chamber.  That's where we do most of our tests.  And let me,  let's describe to the audience why it's important that ion wind can't get out.  Because this is how,  you know,  I learned about all this stuff through Thomas Townsend Brown.  And he used to do these experiments.  So,  Thomas Townsend Brown's this super interesting,  mysterious guy who pops up at extremely high levels of aerospace.  He was at the Navy for a very long time.  He was at Martin Corporation the year that Skunk Works was formed in 1942 or  three.  Um,  there's a,  an FBI document,  um,  that is circulated now and out about him,  uh,  and says that he's the lead radar scientist in the entire Navy.  He knows more about radar than anybody in the Navy.  We have a lot of evidence that his electrohydrodynamics work,  you know,  this electric fields to manipulate airflow work ended up in the B2 stealth  bomber.  So you have like two out of three things that he's talking about definitely  being legit.  And then the third thing he's saying is I've merged electromagnetism and  gravity.  And he talks about electrogravitics and it's specifically two experiments,  1956 in Paris,  of which we have a witness who,  there's a,  an audio recording of a deathbed confession in 2009,  this guy,  Jacques Corneon,  who's a technical consultant for sued west,  which is,  uh,  you know,  an aerospace corporation there.  And,  you know,  they say there is a,  a force that is not only measurable in a vacuum at 10 to the negative  sixth tour,  but,  um,  the force exceeds what you would ever see outside of a vacuum.  And then he does the same experiment at the Bonson labs,  the Institute of field physics in North Carolina.  And it's this remarkable thing where you have this guy,  two out of the three things he's saying,  probably right.  You have,  you know,  he's dealing with Curtis LeMay and the Rand corporation,  all these super high up people.  And then the,  this electrogravitics thing just gets stigmatized and people just kind of  forget about it.  And it almost feels like he's trying to,  he has this wounded Prairie chicken routine where he's trying to stigmatize  his own work.  And so it's,  it's fascinating.  And the reason,  so this is very long winded,  but you mentioned ion wind,  the way people write off any of these experiments,  including Thomas towns and Browns is they say that,  uh,  these capacitor experiments,  especially if they take place,  not in a vacuum,  you end up with ionized air,  the ionized air then bounces off of,  uh,  other air particles.  And it's basically just Newton's law taking place.  And then you get thrust.  And so that's very different than showing this in a vacuum.  Or in this case,  you mitigated ion ions in an,  in another way.  Is that right?  Well,  you kind of have to,  otherwise you'll see the ion wind thrust.  So you can either cap it and close it in a volume,  whatever you have to do,  but you don't want the iron wind to be playing a role here.  Yep.  And,  uh,  one of the things that's different about the force that we're talking about  in the iron wind force is in terms of geometry is that the devices will move  with the wind.  So imagine a rocket moving in the direction that the exhaust is.  That's crazy.  So you have to remove the iron wind because of the stigma from it.  Yep.  Because a lot of scientists have tried to do these things and they've seen the  iron wind and it's not a real force in the sense.  It's not a,  uh,  propellantless force.  There's propellant there,  the wind.  Yep.  Um,  but the other thing is not,  that's a different thing.  Yeah.  That's a completely different beast.  And you would be an authority in your ability to delineate between.  Sure.  I do.  I do videos where I take those,  um,  the lifters and I put them in a,  in a plastic box and put it on a scale.  Yeah.  And you watch the weight and you turn it on.  The thing lifts up and the weights flat lines does not move at all.  Wow.  So drew was like,  man,  I've never seen that video before.  That's conservation momentum right there.  That's what I and wind is doing.  Yep.  So that's exactly like the,  all that you have all these DIY videos of these balsa wood lifters with tinfoil  and you have the ions moving around the copper coil.  Or whatever.  And then you end up with thrust,  but that is not this electro gravidic force or what you are calling,  you know,  this,  this,  uh,  Exodus force or,  you know,  electrostatic variation force,  whatever it is,  that is different.  That is another force.  Um,  so it's important for,  you know,  any experimental physicists who want to pour cold water on this.  And the funny thing is Brown himself would use the electrohydrodynamic stuff.  The,  the stuff involving ion wind to cover for the electro gravidics.  He would literally like,  because it's 95% similar,  but it's not the same thing.  And again,  you are in a kind of an authoritative position in order to,  you know,  you have the ability to delineate between those two things.  Yeah,  that's important.  I think it is really important.  Yeah.  Um,  and it's,  yeah,  it's important because it's always the first order debunk on this entire thing.  So you do this experiment that eliminates or controls for ion wind.  I'm assuming you since then have done a series of experiments to control for all sorts of other possible confounding variables.  Yes.  So after drew and I did these experiments in 2016,  uh,  I think we spent about two years trying to package it.  Now there's one thing to put a hundred thousand volts on a device and have it move around in the room.  Drew and I both knew that was completely impractical.  You can't do anything with that because you have to make something to attach it to a vehicle,  to a rocket,  to something that people have to be around.  And this,  this better damn well go inside of a grounded box.  So we made a lot of effort.  It took a lot of effort those two years to get the sucker packaged up in a,  in a way so it can actually be transportable and confined.  Um,  so that was the initial pull to,  to go into a,  to get into a system where we can actually enclose everything.  Coolant forces are the biggest killer in vacuum or in air.  So you can,  you know,  if you apply high voltage to something,  it'll attract to the wall,  the floors,  ceilings far away.  It can still do that.  So you have to make sure that everything you do is inside of a very well grounded Faraday cage.  So that is another one of our,  our tests,  our checks and balances.  You know,  do we have it inside of a Faraday cage?  Is it all completely housed?  Is it feels trapped within the system?  Do we spin it the other way?  There's a lot of checks and balances that we have to do along,  along the,  along the way.  So Faraday cage would eliminate magnetic fields.  No.  Okay.  Only electric field,  only electric field interference.  And then you also need vacuum chamber because is that right?  Or no,  you don't need it.  It's a lot easier.  Okay.  Cause you get rid of the air.  The gas breaks down like a million volts per meter fields.  So the gases start breaking down and when they break down,  they create their own charges.  And when they create their own charges,  you can put charges where you don't want it.  You can short,  you can have charges leaking around the sides.  It really messes with you.  So to do things in airs is a bit more complicated than vacuum.  Vacuum don't have to worry about that.  Moisture is the biggest killer,  especially in Florida.  So you want to do stuff in,  in a very dry environment or high vacuum if you can.  So you're saying that in a vacuum chamber,  you get more thrust.  You could make a system work better.  Yes.  Interesting.  Well,  that's Townsend Brown also said you'd get more thrust.  You get more thrust because the field limit is not 10 to the sixth anymore.  It's 10 to the eighth.  Right.  So that's because it goes,  the forces are related to pressure.  They go up by field squared.  So instead of 10 to the sixth squared is 10 to the 12th,  10 to the eighth square is 10 to the 16.  So now you have a much,  you have four orders of magnitude potential,  higher thrust just on the,  on the exterior part of their,  of your thrusters.  So there's more to draw from,  from the field.  That's right.  This is a field effect.  It's not a voltage effect.  It's fascinating.  Yeah.  It's so interesting.  And it's,  but it really flies in the face of the debunkers saying that it's  attributable to ion wind because in an environment where there is less  ion wind,  you are getting more thrust and it might be due to this field effect,  but still you're controlling for the ion wind,  which is what they're saying is accounting for the thrust.  Yes.  And you have to also,  when you're in a vacuum chamber,  now you have a new falsity,  which could be the walls of the vacuum chamber,  giant metal ground.  So you want to make sure that you put your test device,  whatever it is in the side of a Faraday cage,  and then you measure the force on the fabric.  If you're in a Faraday cage,  nothing else,  not what's inside of it,  the whole box has to move.  So you got to measure that.  That makes sure that what you're seeing is real.  Then you got to turn that sucker around so that you're not being attracted to the wall  through the Faraday cage.  So you want to make sure you're always going in the correct direction.  So describe the current kind of state of the art experimental setup on this.  So that's basically what I was saying.  So we'll put it in a box.  It'll be a Faraday cage.  A lot of ways to make Faraday cages,  ground it really,  really well.  If you do have voltage coming in from outside,  or if you put the,  the voltage inside,  you have to make sure it's yielded really,  really well.  You don't want any coolant attraction to the walls or the housing or anything like that.  We've gotten good where we've lowered our voltage way,  way down.  We don't need 30,  40,000 volts like we did 10 years ago.  I try to keep it all contained and then reverse it,  make sure it works,  put it in air,  see if it works,  put it in the mass,  put it on the scale,  see if it works,  do the pendulum,  do the rotator,  do the spinner,  do everything to make sure it's real,  because we hate,  and fall asleep.  Okay,  so what we have here is a thruster that is set on top of a scale in room air.  Okay,  so what Buehler is basically saying here is that he's testing a small experimental in-air  thruster to show that it actually works.  His team puts the thruster on a sensitive scale.  Next,  they connect it to electricity,  about 480 volts to be exact.  If you look to the bottom right of the screen,  you'll see the voltage that is applied.  You can also see that the thruster is connected to electricity.  You can also see the current in the center,  the electric field,  and the runtime.  So this is a 42-minute video that we sped up to five minutes.  They watch to see if the scale reading changes as a result of the thrust.  We turn on the voltage here.  It's about minus 480 volts.  When they turn the power on,  the thruster produces a tiny force.  Within a few seconds,  the force starts to be applied to the thruster,  which is on top of the scale,  and it goes in the negative direction.  It's lifting up.  They're specifically demonstrating that the force is real and controllable,  enough to lift about 0.1 grams.  When we see about 0.1 grams,  that corresponds to about 1 millinewton of thrust.  When they turn the power off,  the force goes away.  Okay, so we leave it on for a few seconds,  and then we turn it back off,  and then you can see that it'll come back down.  They repeat this to show it's not a fluke.  So what we'll do is we'll do this again.  We'll turn it back on,  get it back up to the millinewton range,  and let it sit for a few seconds.  So what we're showing is that you can actually turn this force on and off.  They then flip the thruster upside down and run the test again.  So you'll see that here in a moment.  And the reason why we have it off the scale  is we do not want any attraction of the thruster to the scale itself.  Although the fields are very, very weak,  and in most cases there is a Faraday shield,  we also want to make it so that it's very, very far away.  Finally, they take full precautions  to make sure nothing else is affecting the measurement.  So we flip the thruster,  we deionize it,  basically we deionize the gases,  we neutralize any charge that escapes,  and then we re-tear the scale.  It's typical.  It's what's needed for scale testing.  This thruster itself is surrounded by ground plates,  so we try to minimize the field that escapes,  but just in case we neutralize it anywhere,  and then we turn the voltage back on,  in this case about 480 volts or so,  wait a few seconds,  the thrust kicks on,  and then we see the force is in the positive direction,  so now it's being pulled down.  Now the force pushes down instead of up.  This proves that the thruster itself is creating the force,  not some outside interference or attraction to the scale,  like electrical interference or the thruster just sticking to the scale.  I would say this video proves the force fairly definitively to any skeptic,  but you could technically say  that this experiment requires a vacuum chamber  because open air can get ionized.  Again, ionized wind can result in thrust  based on Newton's classical laws,  but 480 volts isn't nearly enough to ionize the air,  so it's kind of a moot point.  But just for good measure,  here is another variation of the experiment,  also showing thrust,  this time in a vacuum chamber.  What we have here is a vacuum test  highlighting actual movement in vacuum  using a dual thruster pack  in the vertical spinner orientation,  and how we measure the force is here,  is we have pegs at the bottom of the stand  that are about 2 millimeters apart,  and the deflection, once the thruster is turned on,  moves at about 14 millimeters,  which corresponds to roughly about 2.5 millinewtons of thrust  when we turn this device on.  These devices are actuated externally to the vacuum chamber  through a Bluetooth connection,  so they're not in contact with anything,  but the ITO walls that surround the thruster pack,  shown by that clear picture,  transparent plastic,  is perfectly grounded,  so that eliminates Coulomb attraction to the wall.  We're also in high vacuum,  so there's no ion wind interference.  Just to highlight that these thrusters  are actually developing thrust internally,  not an external effect.  So power systems inside the chamber,  all the high voltages encased,  surrounded with an indium tin oxide sheathing,  and the thruster does come on as expected  and go off as expected for these earlier versions.  So that is a nice way to show  that there is actual physical movement in high vacuum.  We're not just recording forces,  measurements without actually corresponding that to real force.  So these are just two out of the 2,000 experimental variations  from Charles, Drew, and the Exodus team.  If you're an experimental physicist  with a credible background,  maybe you have a PhD,  or you're a professor at a top 200 physics department,  and you're a bit bored and interested in exotic propulsion,  and you want to see one of these experiments with me  live in person to help vet it  and maybe change the world in the process,  hit me up at usa.alchemy at gmail.com.  Skeptics are extremely welcome.  I want people who are in good faith  trying to poke holes in the experimental setup here.  If I were to pluck a random experimental physicist  from an elite college  and place him in front of this experiment,  the exact experiment you just described,  is there anything they could say  to deny the empirical effect that you're seeing?  I honestly don't know.  I mean, as far as we can tell,  the electrostatics community and with my colleagues,  because it's DC,  that eliminates all the magnetic effects.  So you can get all kinds of weird stuff happening  when you have magnetics going on,  Earth's magnetic field or whatnot.  And DC is direct current.  Are you saying if you had alternating current,  you'd have weird magnetic field effects?  So you'd have to account for any fake readings with that, yes,  if you have AC, sure.  Interesting.  Okay.  That eliminates a lot of that.  Yeah.  And then when you turn it off and it's still there,  that eliminates a lot of that, right?  So now you really are scratching your head like,  what is happening here?  And that's where we're at.  Like, what is happening here?  Is there anything that they can hang their hat on  as far as being skeptical about this actually happening  or being able to explain it away  through prosaic physics forces that are known?  I mean, I think if you look at every single experiment,  you can say, well, this might be fake because of this.  Hmm.  I say, okay, we'll put it over here.  Oh, well, now it's maybe fake because of this.  Okay, we'll put it over here.  It says, show me a rock.  What about this?  Okay, now do this, do that.  Is there anything left is what I'm trying to ask you.  I don't think so.  Like, if you had to stress test your own?  If there is, it's something quite exotic  that I have no idea what it would be.  I don't know what else it would be.  It's shown itself over and over again.  How many variations of this experiment  do you think you've tried sequentially from 2010 till today?  Well, since Drew and I,  we've been keeping track.  We are close to 2,000.  Oh, my God.  Test articles.  2,000 instances of the experiment?  No.  Or 2,000 variations?  2,000 variations.  Holy shit.  2,000 test articles.  Each one is tested multiple times.  Whoa.  Folders of folders.  Has anybody come in,  thoroughly examined your experiment,  and come out skeptical?  Or has everybody that's thoroughly examined it  come out saying there's something here?  I would say the latter.  For sure.  There's something there.  You cannot think of one person who is still like,  I spent, you know, a day plus with the team,  and I still, you know, think I can explain it  with some other, you know, force.  I haven't come across anyone.  Or with some conventional force.  I can't really think of anyone.  Granted, there's not been that many people  who have seen it, you know, a couple dozen or so,  but I don't think so.  You know, what's really cool, though,  is some people have called me up and say,  you know, I represent an investor,  or, you know, I would like to,  the investor would like to, you know,  invest into your company or whatever.  I said, okay, well, what you have to do  is you have to fly down, you have to see it,  put your hands on it,  and usually that's kind of the routine.  He said, oh, I don't need to do that.  I said, what do you mean?  All right, I built one in my garage.  I got a one-milli-Newton.  He showed us how to do it, so I just did it.  Wow.  So it's been the opposite.  People have been very taken into this,  and they're very excited about it.  That's amazing.  So the people with the know can do it,  and the people that have seen it,  I just don't know if they know what they're seeing,  but they definitely like it,  and they're probably not good enough to vet it,  I would say,  because vetting it would take a lot more work,  and I think it would take a lot more expertise.  We haven't had too many, you know,  other than, you know, Dr. Clements,  and there's other physicists that have seen it  that have said anything negative about it.  We haven't seen any that have said it negative,  but we haven't seen,  it hasn't been exposed  to the entire scientific community either.  I think in this field,  it's hard to find who are those people,  who would be interested in it.  My hope is,  and one thing I did want to mention is...  I think everybody should be interested in it.  Well, I think so.  Yeah.  You know, my,  when we are hosting  the Electrostatic Society of America conference this year,  my lab is,  and that's in Cocoa Beach, Florida,  and I will do a live demo of this.  When is it?  There.  In June.  Can I come and film?  You can.  Oh, that'd be amazing.  Let's go.  I'm so excited.  The Electrostatic Society of America is just a,  the happy,  it's called the Friendly Society.  Cool.  And,  and this is an electrostatic phenomenon.  So, you know,  I'm going to highlight how electrostatics  is so necessary for space.  And propulsion is one of the things  I think it could help for sure.  So I'm going to mention that.  Why don't you submit this to peer review,  and try to get it kind of academically checked off?  I'm trying.  Okay.  It's just a very busy person.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You're busy,  but I want to see this destigmatized.  I know.  I do too.  But you know,  you know,  there's the path.  Right now we're focused on getting the company started.  So we get some funding to,  to really get the forces up.  That's our,  that's our main focus.  Yeah.  The peer review and all of that's going to take 20 years.  So I'm starting that.  I don't know if it'll take 20 years.  Maybe 30.  What?  It just will.  It just will.  It's too different.  It's,  it's.  Oh,  because of the antibodies.  Yeah.  This is,  this field has been poisoned multiple times for a century.  You know,  I would say that.  And then I think people are becoming more and more open to these sorts of effects.  Are you familiar with Sonny White?  Sure.  So,  you know,  he's dealing with him,  but he's another NASA guy,  NASA Eagle works.  And he is kind of similar to you where,  you know,  he's has this kind of pretty credentialed,  impressive background.  And he's claiming to one point,  point,  five kilovolts,  you know,  um,  powering up a little microchip based on the Casimir effect.  Yeah.  And the Casimir effect is this long legendary kind of anomalous effect that if you were to walk into elite physics,  you know,  departments,  I don't think you'd get too many people denying the effect itself,  but it's essentially two,  not charged,  but conductive plates.  And it seems like there's some sort of maybe quantum vacuum fluctuation thing going on between them.  And,  you know,  the plates attract in this sort of anomalous,  interesting way.  And he's claiming to be able to tap into that,  which is,  yeah,  I hate the word zero point energy.  The term,  you know,  is so quacky,  but it is that.  And so you have that,  you have Beatrice Viorial.  I don't know if you're familiar with her and I don't know if you're into UFO stuff.  I don't want to muddy the waters too much,  but,  um,  she's at Stockholm university and she's,  uh,  you know,  again,  like traditional astrophysics credentials,  really impressive,  you know,  uh,  astronomer.  And,  uh,  she went back and looked at these plates from the Palomar observatory,  which is,  you know,  the,  was the most in use observatory in the late forties and early fifties.  And she looked at the plates from 49 to 57.  So pre Sputnik,  and she found all these transients,  these light reflecting objects there that are flat and,  uh,  mirror like,  and,  uh,  seem to exist somewhere,  probably in geostationary orbit.  So kind of like outer,  you know,  earth orbit.  And these short flashes and not streaks,  they're associated with things that are extremely flat and extremely reflective.  Wow.  Like mirrors.  And that makes it more fun.  Like mirrors.  And they're exactly how all the early CIA documents would describe UFOs.  And they show up 68% more around nuclear detonations,  which is,  we know UFOs are kind of attracted to nukes.  Out of those 2,700,  2,700 days,  if there's no nuclear test,  there's a transient on 11% of those days.  But if there's been a,  a nuclear test the day before,  then it's,  uh,  almost 19% of those days have a transient.  So that 11 versus 19 is about a 68% increase in risk for a transient.  If you've had a nuclear test.  And she got that pass through peer review.  Hmm.  So I don't know.  I think the world is opening up to this stuff.  And my hope is that,  uh,  30 years is,  is a way overestimate.  And I hear you.  I mean,  academia is totally close minded and dogmatic,  but I think maybe sometimes you just have to walk through the front door,  you know,  you just have to like knock and they'll let you in.  Well,  I'm going to,  I'm going to be the front door.  I'm going to,  I'm going to be the house that lands.  I love that.  You know,  peer review in a paper,  the physics people are going to debate for,  for decades.  Sure.  I like having the,  the website and,  and drew and,  and having videos,  how to make the things go ahead,  make them.  Yeah.  You don't believe me.  Go ahead and make a garage.  Yeah.  Yeah.  This has been very helpful.  So people have done this.  So you'll do this.  Like D you have like these DIY videos where it's like,  go do this at home.  Yeah.  Whoa.  And then,  and where are these videos?  They're on our website.  Oh,  wow.  And where,  where is that?  Is that exodus space.com or what?  Or exodus propulsion dot space,  exodus propulsion dot space.  Okay.  And you've shown your experiments with all of the configurations that would,  not all of them.  Okay.  We have to keep some stuff quiet.  Okay,  cool.  So are you doing like lateral propeller experiments or are you doing things that involve like  lifting objects?  We're not lifting objects yet in earth's gravity.  Okay.  We're measuring the forces of these objects.  Yeah.  And seeing how much their force can lift as compared to earth gravity.  Got it.  So,  so we do have thrusters that are theoretically capable to lift themselves up.  The,  the problem is all of the hardware that goes with it,  the voltages and the powers and the wires and the framing and all that other stuff is  not there yet.  So you'd have to,  it's like saying your car engine,  um,  can lift the engine,  can move the engine down the street,  but no tires and no frames.  And so it's not very useful.  Sure.  Um,  but for right now,  for what we have for lunar applications,  space applications,  oh,  it's awesome.  It would be fantastic.  That's amazing.  So in microgravity or,  or no gravity environments,  you'll get a ton of thrust.  Sure.  That's amazing.  Um,  and you're seeing weight reduction.  Is that right?  Well,  we were saying that,  yeah,  the,  the weight reduction would be something we're seeing,  not mass reduction.  Be careful.  Okay.  Yeah,  yeah,  no,  I,  I know that gets thrown around in UFO world all the time.  I'm like,  wait,  are you,  you're reducing the mass of the thing?  It's definitely not negative mass.  Yeah,  yeah,  yeah,  right.  But yeah,  so we,  we do those tests.  We have videos.  Um,  I can share some with you.  Please.  Uh,  where we put stuff on a scale and we turn it on,  it gets lighter.  You flip it over,  it gets heavier.  We are going through a peer review.  Okay.  Amazing.  For our second patent.  So the examiner's office is doing a,  a thorough peer review.  They're the ones,  uh,  going down that path.  Okay,  great.  Which is apparently equivalent to a scientific peer review.  So there,  that's what I've been told.  Amazing.  So,  they're reaching out to the people that have done it,  reaching out to people who have signed affidavits to say,  yes,  I've seen it.  Yes,  I've reproduced it,  blah,  blah,  blah,  blah,  blah.  So they're going through that process now.  What inspired you to pursue kind of more exotic propulsion to begin with?  Did you have any childhood experiences around this sort of stuff?  Yes.  Yes,  I did.  Um,  I've always had a fascination with,  with UFOs.  And I think it's been around a long time.  Just,  you know,  strange phenomena,  but I think it really hit home.  Um,  I think I was 11 or 12 when we worked our haunted house.  My dad would make haunted houses in our,  in our garage in New York.  Really?  What does that even mean?  Make haunted houses in your garage?  My dad built a haunted house for the,  um,  hotel that he worked at.  A giant Holiday Inn,  I think it was,  or Hilton in,  uh,  Connecticut.  And it was a massive haunted house.  And his job was to build the whole darn thing.  So he liked that.  So the next year we did it at our house.  And we've charged people like $50,000.  I think it was,  $50,000 to get in and go through the haunted house.  And it was probably,  uh,  I think it was a nine by 11 single car garage haunted house.  And,  uh,  we made $1,100.  So many people showed up.  It was crazy.  It was a lot of fun.  But,  you know,  we had a haunted house and it would go on for several weeks.  One night while I was there working it,  um,  a whole bunch of cars came into the driveway.  And,  uh,  I recognized one of the kids getting out of the car.  He said,  Charlie,  go look,  look at that.  And he shows me,  you know,  we look up and there's a six bright white lights at the top of the trees,  just hanging over the trees,  just going over the road,  just not,  you know,  not moving very fast.  Just,  just hanging,  hanging out in formation,  no sound,  no window,  nothing.  And all these cars were following this,  these lights for several days.  This happened over the course of several days.  Was this like a famous UFO wave or flap or something?  It was,  it was in the papers and all that jazz,  Southeast New York in the mid eighties.  Yeah.  It was,  it was a lot of fun.  You know,  I was,  I thought that was pretty cool.  So I kind of like geared my career towards trying to understand some of that stuff.  I just wanted to know what the heck that was.  And,  uh,  it got me interested in physics.  I think in science in general,  I was always interested in science.  Did they look like orbs or were they,  were they part of a formation or do you think they were part of the same craft?  I think they were different craft.  I think they were just separate crafts.  Wow.  I didn't see a solid object or anything.  And so this was for days at a time.  Well,  they would come every night,  they'd come back and they'd be different parts of the,  of the city.  I don't know what the heck they were doing or why they were there,  but it was,  it was pretty,  pretty cool,  pretty wild.  It was about the same time,  um,  where somebody said they saw the men in black,  which I thought was hysterical.  Wild.  Cause I was,  you know,  we were trick or treating out with my friends and we ran into another group of friends.  And that group of friends said,  Hey,  these two weird guys showed up in these 1920s outfits.  And they said,  you know,  if you see something weird,  they said,  just close your eyes and tell it to land.  Do you guys know what the heck that means?  I knew,  I knew what it was.  I said,  where are these guys?  They're right over there.  So we went running to go look for them,  but I didn't find anybody.  But you knew of the men in black.  I knew the phenomena.  No one knew what the men in black were in the 1980s,  early eighties.  I don't think that was a thing,  but I'd like to study that stuff.  So I knew what I knew of who that was or what that was.  That's fascinating.  So I thought,  this is cool.  How can we learn more about this UFO flap?  Does it have kind of a name that it's been kind of preserved by,  or is there a way to search it or?  You could just look up Brewster,  New York.  Brewster,  New York.  Okay.  Probably 86 or 85,  somewhere in that range.  Wild.  Newspapers and television almost weekly carried reports of the sightings.  From different places throughout the area,  eyewitnesses all reported seeing the same thing.  I looked up and right over my head,  virtually.  It wasn't far off.  It was right over my head and very still.  It was a room of lights in the shape of a triangle.  It was just a tremendous object.  It was anywhere from wingtip to wingtip,  about 50 or 60 yards.  These were very,  very unusual lights.  I've never seen anything like it in my life.  And so I pulled my car over and I had to take a look.  But it was in the paper.  I remember that because it lasted several days.  And you hinted to me that you had an even more surreal experience.  Yeah.  That was not a surreal experience.  That was just me seeing some lights.  That's surreal for many people.  Eh.  Just lights.  It was lights,  but yeah.  I had a more intense experience,  I would say,  many years later.  My wife and I experienced this.  And this was,  it was a pretty cool event now that it's over.  A little terrifying at the time,  but we live in Cocoa Beach.  So we went out to the beach one night,  I would say 9,  30,  10 o'clock at night.  And we're the only ones there.  It's not uncommon,  though,  back then.  This is maybe 10 years ago.  And maybe 12 years ago.  So we live close to the Patrick Air Force Base,  which is south of us.  And so out in the ocean,  maybe about three miles outside,  south of us in the ocean,  I would say about three miles.  We could kind of gauge how far things are apart  because we're used to the,  all the rivers and they're all three miles wide.  So this is about three miles out in the ocean.  We see a red light,  just a beacon,  just bleeping.  No big deal.  Just a boat.  Thousands of boats,  but not that night.  There were not thousands of boats.  And it gets brighter and it gets brighter.  We're like,  man,  that's,  it's getting kind of bright.  What is that?  What,  you know,  beacons don't get that bright.  So it's gotta be a boat.  Maybe someone's in trouble.  And then it gets really bright.  And then it explodes.  So we see this giant,  I don't want to say mushroom cloud,  but it got very,  very bright.  So bright.  It lit up the whole beach.  As far as the eye can see for,  you know,  all the way from Cape Canaveral,  all the way down.  And I said,  my God,  what the heck happened there?  My wife and I were like,  that's crazy.  Clearly,  someone's going to call the police  and tell them that a boat exploded.  You know,  we're on the beach.  We didn't have phones or anything at the time.  Like,  what the heck is that?  So I would say five minutes later,  it wasn't that long,  maybe 10 minutes.  We see one of the helicopters  from the ocean  and the Air Force Base go out to it.  So they get up  and they fly over it  and they hover right over it.  It's still blinking.  It's not exploding.  It's still there.  Still blinking.  Just a nice pace.  Bling,  bling,  bling.  Helicopter hangs over,  looks at it,  doesn't do anything,  goes all the way back.  So like,  well,  are they going to help the people?  Are they going to rescue them  or are they going to do any of that?  Nothing.  That is so weird.  That's when it got fun.  So now,  as we're watching this thing,  it's about 10,  15,  20 minutes into it,  it gets closer.  Still bling,  still blinking.  It's getting closer.  It's leaving.  It's moving.  And then it gets within a mile.  So is that three miles?  Is that two miles?  It's about a half a mile.  And then somewhere at,  I think about a half a mile,  it's not one light anymore.  It's split into six.  And it's not just getting bright.  Um,  these orange,  pinkish lights split  and then they started rotating.  And they just started rotating  like bicycles  on a wheel.  And they kept getting closer.  And they would go under the water  and come back out.  Under the water,  come back out.  Under the water,  come back out.  Like this is really weird.  And they got closer to us.  So,  when it got about a quarter of a mile  or maybe a thousand yards out,  we're like,  okay,  we're going to walk up the beach now.  That's been fun.  That's a little bit too close.  It kept following us.  It got closer.  It got closer.  It got brighter.  It got brighter.  And I think it was about,  when they got about,  I wouldn't even be exaggerating,  if I said 50 yards.  What?  That close.  I started getting a little scared.  And I,  I know she was getting scared.  Then,  after about 40 minutes  of looking at these lights  and trying to run from them,  but not full out sprint,  but kind of just walking super fast,  like 12 blocks,  it went out.  And then,  then we walked home.  And it was,  it was terrifying,  but it was not super scary,  but it was scary.  Because I didn't know what the heck that was.  That's wild.  What year was this?  Probably 2013.  Okay.  Somewhere in there.  So you had already started your work  on the more exotic propulsion stuff?  Probably, yeah.  A couple of years in,  by then for sure.  That's fascinating.  It's so interesting.  So you saw this thing out in the distance  and then it started to loop in and out of the water  and then,  and approach you  and it got to like 50 yards in.  Yeah,  it got really close.  Could you make out?  Beyond the waves,  like where the,  where the waves started.  Did it still look like this amorphous light  at 50 yards  or could you make out the structure?  There's no,  I couldn't see a structure.  Just six or seven lights  going in a pattern,  faster,  slower,  faster,  slower,  in and out of the water,  like the water wasn't there.  And just,  it was responding to us.  Really?  So why,  because that's a common thing  for people to say  who've had UFO experiences.  It just,  if we went up,  it went up.  If we went faster,  it went faster.  It was mirroring.  It was mirroring us.  Did you get any sort of consciousness download  or feel mentally locked in with it  or anything like that?  No.  Interesting.  No,  I don't think so.  These lights are kind of common over there.  If you,  if you study these,  these type of lights,  because we live near a cruise ship,  the port,  so you'll see a lot of videos online  with these lights.  Steven Greer takes his,  his group down there  to that same,  almost that same beach  about,  40 minutes south  to look and,  and,  you know,  kind of conjure up the lights.  So that,  and I have had other friends since then  have the same experience  or similar experience,  which I thought was super cool  because he was out at the beach  with his family  and they saw it late at night.  They're the only ones on the beach.  They saw them too.  It was like maybe seven,  eight years later.  So it's pretty weird  stuff that's happened.  What do you think  this Patrick Air Force Base  helicopter was doing?  Do you think it was doing recon  on this UFO or?  I have no idea.  Oh,  it's so interesting.  The way it behaved  it was just like,  oh,  it's these darn lights again.  It didn't act.  But it looked like  it was intentionally dispatched  from Patrick Air Force Base.  After that very large bright event,  which was blinding to look at  is how bright it was.  They addressed it  and went out there  and looked at it  and still saw it there,  you know,  getting bright,  dim,  bright,  dim.  It was very bright still,  not blinding bright,  but it was very bright.  It was like home.  Do you ever get  one step kookier  and say,  why did this happen to me?  Does it have something to do  with the work  that I'm pursuing?  You know,  I don't think so.  It happened.  A lot of people  have seen these things.  You know,  these lights,  they follow cruise ships  and boats.  There's a lot of weird videos of it.  So they're probably  just chasing people.  Yeah.  If I had to guess,  I don't think I'm anything special.  You're just following people.  Well,  I might follow the person  who's working on  interstellar propulsion  a little more  disproportionately.  Did you know that  Thomas Townsend Brown  had a very similar experience?  Oh, really?  Catalina Island.  And a little orb light  approached him,  literally came up to him.  Townsend Brown had  a UFO experience  in Catalina  as a teenager.  Is that right?  Yes.  Yes,  and I know the exact spot  where he was standing.  I used to ride my horse  up that ridge.  It approached him.  It actually approached him.  And,  and he said  that he learned  so much  standing there  with that ball of light  that he went back  to his,  which at the time  was,  he had a lab  in Pasadena  that was funded  by his parents.  So he had his own  private lab  and he said  he went to work  immediately  and he worked,  that was,  that was the beginning  of his life's work.  And he said  that everything  that he ever learned  and I think  that as his work,  he learned  instantly  everything.  Wow.  Wow.  So you got,  that's so fascinating.  I wish I got a download.  I've been 10 years  further ahead.  Yeah.  Well,  maybe you've gotten  a lot of downloads  and you just don't know it,  you know?  It's,  it's always interesting  how,  you know,  science is treated like,  oh,  it's,  you're just figuring this out.  Like,  you figure out the last,  you know,  term of an equation  on a chalkboard  or something  and often  if you were to probe  the scientist  in many cases,  I don't know if this comports  with your experience,  it's far more  like revelation.  It's like,  ah,  it just hit me.  Yeah.  You know,  it's Dirac,  we were talking about Dirac,  Dirac,  you know,  staring at the fire  in Cambridge  and just downloading  the Dirac equation  or Heisenberg  at Elgoland,  you know,  figuring out  quantum leaps  and,  you know,  electron shells.  And so,  this is a very common experience.  I don't know  if you've ever had  anything like that.  I would say,  yeah,  some of the math  is just very discretized.  Oh,  we'll try this  and big leap there  and then months go by.  Oh,  try this.  Oh,  yeah,  that works better.  That makes more sense.  Whether it's experimental  or theoretical,  yeah,  it doesn't,  it's not a super gradual thing.  It does have,  you know,  step functions to it  for sure.  I mean,  I don't think  if they were in front  of either of you,  they would be able  to beat you in an argument.  Well,  the argument to have  to anyone,  just go try it.  Go try it,  yeah.  Seriously,  don't take my word for it.  Yes.  Go build this thing  in your garage.  I think they'd be too arrogant  to show up,  but I think  if Neil deGrasse Tyson  were in a room  with your experiment,  I don't think  he could explain it.  And that seems  like a really important fact  that you have one side  that's like showing an effect.  You have 2,000 iterations  of that effect.  You are an expert  in this field.  You've contributed  two,  you know,  really important things  to the field itself  that are conventionally  now,  you know,  accepted.  And you say  you're getting an effect  and then you have  somebody else  who's just smugly  dismissing it.  Like,  I'm going to go with you  over the smug dismissal.  Well,  you know,  that's how science works.  You know,  it is inherently skeptical.  Yeah.  You got to understand  everything,  the theory,  the modeling,  the experiment.  So I expect it.  This is why  I didn't go  the peer review route  per se  went the other peer review route,  which is through the  patent office.  Well,  it's a good,  that's a good attitude  to have.  And yeah,  the patent office,  there you go.  It's smart.  Yeah,  just make money off it.  Just commercialize it.  You know,  let's just do that.  And if they're wrong,  it's still peer reviewed.  The examiner's office  is peer reviewing it.  Yeah.  But in the meantime,  I'll,  I'll just keep building away.  Yeah.  Going away.  Having said that,  I like,  you know,  Thomas Kuhn talks about,  you know,  in the structure  of scientific revolutions,  how science moves more  around politics  than it does truth.  And I do think the fact  that you lead electrostatics  at NASA  is this really important thing.  There is the kind of,  you know,  patent,  you know,  commercial route  that you can take.  You can just  do the kind of startup thing  and just win  on your own.  And then there's another  part of me  where I'm like,  you know,  Niels Bohr  didn't create  the first semiconductor company.  And,  you know,  if you really are,  you know,  contributing  to fundamental physics  in the form  of this new force,  I,  I like that you're coming  on this show  and that you have videos  and you're telling people  to do it at home  because  it's hard to know  where that even leads.  And I hope you know that.  Sure.  And so I do think  you just letting this out  in a public way,  I think also  will amount to  a Cambrian explosion  of people  working on new  cool ideas.  And I think the more  you let it out,  the more you become  a lighthouse  for like,  you kind of did it first  and the other  high agency people  who do other variations  of what you're doing  will come to you.  And so I think  it's this flywheel  where I do think  being public about it  is really  the right thing.  Because God forbid,  I mean,  all these other scientists  that spend like  their lives  in secrecy  and then sometimes  they,  you know,  the frameworks  that they've helped  establish  just kind of go away  and they're still  stigmatized to this day.  Townsend Brown  being a great example.  Yeah.  I agree with that.  I think getting it out there,  letting people see it,  this is something  that's just too important  to be bottled up  completely,  really,  let's be fair.  This is a new force.  It's just what it is.  Whether it's  a gravitational force  or some other  mechanical effect,  it's too important  to just say,  no, no, no,  I'm going to work on it  until I'm done  and then I'll let you  see it at the end.  That's not what  this should be.  Yeah.  You know,  we need this.  Yeah.  We need it.  We need it now.  You know,  we say we have  an energy crisis.  Oh my God,  the energy crisis.  Well,  it could be considered  an energy crisis,  but it's really  a force crisis.  It's a transportation crisis.  How do you get  an object from here  to here?  That is  the real problem.  Absolutely.  And we've been flying  with Boeing 747s  or equivalents,  you know,  for the last 60 years.  It's just crazy.  We've seen  total stagnation  in the world  of transportation.  And so...  So the world needs this.  The world absolutely  needs this.  If I can help,  I will.  Well,  I love that attitude.  That's awesome.  You mentioned a patent,  a second patent.  Your first patent,  there was  a national security  hold on it.  Is that right?  We don't know.  Okay.  But it's possible.  What  does that even mean?  Some patents  apparently go through  the Department of Defense  Okay.  before they're released,  depending on the nature  of the patent.  And some  never see the light of day,  right?  There's the Invention  Secrecy Act of 1952.  Yeah,  I believe that's  that was one of the risks  that we were aware of.  Mm-hmm.  Fascinating.  Do you,  so this is the weird thing  about these sorts  of experiments.  There is so much  smoke,  not only from you.  I know a lot  of engineers  who've worked  at aerospace  corporations,  you know,  Lockheed,  Northrop,  those sorts of companies.  And they give you  a little wink,  wink,  nudge,  nudge.  They often can't say  that there's anything  to,  you know,  the Byfield-Brown  experiment.  But,  you know,  it's often you're  on the right path,  buddy.  And there's,  weird things happen  with high,  you know,  electric field strengths  at short distances  and with,  you know,  big gradients  or,  you know,  asymmetry.  You know,  that often,  that always comes up.  And it is,  is there something  going on?  Am I,  am I wrong to say this?  Because I,  look,  a lot of the physics  is above my pay grade.  But there is just  an overwhelming  amount of circumstantial  evidence  that there's a there  there here.  And I think  that's a,  a,  a lot of the  evidence  that we're  is,  is,  is,  you know,  the old adage is  everyone,  everyone has a theory,  but no one believes  the theory.  Yeah,  yeah,  yeah.  But the experimenter  doesn't believe his own  experiments,  but everyone believes  the experiments.  But if you look at  how science gets  pushed forward,  to me,  the experimental physics  is a bigger tell that  the theory is like a prison  or something.  And so I,  I never like,  you know,  this can't work  because theory.  Yeah.  Like,  I think it's,  this worked  and we have to explain  it with a new theory.  Yeah.  And it's like  the Casimir effect  or like something  and maybe the Casimir effect  makes sense  and quantum electrodynamics,  I don't know.  But there are a lot  of these,  you know,  what's a good example  like blackbody radiation  in the 1860s  with Gustav Kirchhoff.  It was,  should have produced  this ultraviolet catastrophe  and it didn't.  And it was because  of,  you know,  quanta,  which Planck discovered  40 years later.  And you can't say  the anomaly  isn't right  because of the theory  and there's just  so much  anecdotal evidence  around this anomaly  working.  Yeah,  I think there are  examples.  I gave some of those  in the APEC.  Some of the examples  of what this,  how this force might manifest,  you don't even know  that you're seeing it.  Like momentum anomalies  for spacecraft  when they go around the Earth  and they get to  the Van Allen belts,  they either speed up  or they slow down  just by going through the,  picking up charge  as they go through  which doesn't make  a lot of sense.  So they have to actually  add extra fuel  to spacecraft  to account for that.  They don't know  where it comes from.  That's fascinating.  So there's all kinds  of things like that.  So those momentum anomalies  are possibly attributable  to this force.  I think so.  It's possible.  And you're calling  this the exodus force  and your company  is Exodus Space.  That's right.  Okay.  You know,  the force is really  two forces.  There's a surface force  and a volume force.  We call the surface force,  that's actually  electrostatic pressure force  because it comes from  electrostatic pressure.  And then we have  a divergence  in the E field force  for the volume element  because the integral  has a surface  and a volume component.  At least the classical version  which is not truly correct.  It's close.  But it's,  obviously,  you can't explain  this force, I think,  in classical mechanics.  You have to use quantum.  But at least the classical  kind of steers you  in the right direction  because you can actually  build something on that  to test it.  But to be fair,  it has to be  a mechanical effect.  It's not  a classical effect  what we're seeing.  Which has always  been known.  Why are you sure  it's not a classical effect?  Well,  for one,  we're not conserving energy  in the classical world.  Right.  You know,  if we put something  on the scale  and we turn it off,  it should go off.  Because the fields  are intact,  the force remains.  So now we're dealing  with something else.  Just like the  Casimir effect.  It's dealing  with something else.  You don't need power  for the Casimir effect.  You can just put  two plates in space  and they will attract.  You do not need  to add power for that.  It is an artifact  of the structure  of the vacuum.  This might be  another similar thing,  just in a different light.  And,  you know,  in the Townsend-Brown  experiments  involving  electrogravitics,  they were  capacitor experiments.  So you had  a negative electrode,  you had a positive electrode,  you had a high K dielectric  in between them.  The high K factor,  which is the ability  to store  and discharge easily  a lot of,  you know,  high electric fields,  was this really important  factor for determining  the thrust  in the experiment.  Does that make sense  in the context  of your experiment?  Sure.  Okay.  So usually  if you have a high capacitance,  you can store more charge,  right?  Some more charge  of my energy.  But,  we have to look at,  you know,  we look at  all the capacitances,  not just the capacitance  between the two plates.  We look at the fields  and how you can  strengthen the fields.  You know,  sometimes high capacitance  or high K values,  high dielectric constants  can lower the fields.  So you want  a high field  depending on  where you're,  where you want  the thrust to be.  So you can tailor  some of that  with capacitance  just like Towns  and Brown did.  But it is  a field effect.  So,  those are the things,  those are some  of the knobs you have.  You have a lot of knobs.  You have geometry knobs,  capacitance knobs,  voltage knobs.  that we can do.  But,  how you could explain  this force classically,  I don't really know.  At least with the  conservation of energy stuff.  Is the,  you know,  Brown would use DC pulsing  and like,  you know,  kind of high climb rates  of the voltage.  So the voltage would,  there'd be a steep climb rate  where it would,  you know,  increase very,  very sharply.  Is that  also consistent  with your theory or?  I don't really know.  I mean,  we try to stay away  from the AC stuff  or the very high slew rate  stuff if we can.  Damages to the plastics  or damages to the metals,  damages to the materials,  too many,  too much current.  Um,  we,  we haven't explored  all of the different ways  to actually enact it.  We're still exploring  the DC versions.  We haven't explored  all the different ways  you can apply  different voltages  and different currents  to it.  Which is something  we could,  we have a lot of room  in the future  to improve upon.  But we're doing  so many variations  with all the other parameters.  We don't really need  to change the,  the slew rates too much yet.  Do you take issue  with the term anti-gravity  or?  I don't like anti-gravity.  Okay.  Well,  because that is,  that would be like a  opposite of gravity force.  Yeah.  Or the,  you know,  like the electrogravitics.  It's very pretentious  to say that we're messing  with gravity.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Ah,  even Drew calls this warp drive.  I'm not there yet.  You know,  I'm not,  I'm not there yet  with the bending  of space time.  Yeah.  There are experiments  to check that.  You can use interferometry  or something like that.  That's what we find.  But,  I don't know  if we need to,  I don't think  I'm bending space time  with my,  my 2,000 volts  and,  you know,  plates  and wires  and needles.  I don't think I am.  Yeah.  I think I am,  but I don't think I am.  But you do think  you've discovered  an inroad towards  propulsion mechanism  that can get us  into kind of  interstellar travel  and actually  deep space travel,  which,  that's amazing.  Yes.  But I don't know  if that's the case.  I don't want  to go there yet.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Fair enough.  You know,  because if,  if that's the case,  then you'll go down  other paths,  other rabbit holes  that I don't want  to go down.  Like,  oh,  well,  then you can make  a teleportation device  or a wormhole  or this  or all that other stuff.  Yeah.  Yeah,  I don't,  I don't,  I'm not ready  for going down  those paths yet either.  Have you looked  about this  Chinese scientist  that was working  on anti-gravity  and then vanished?  Yeah,  I'm real excited  about the spinning  superconductor stuff.  Yeah.  Because,  you know,  my PhD is in high-temperature  superconductivity.  I was going to say.  Yeah.  And I was like,  oh,  maybe that's,  that's a way  to shield gravity,  something like that.  And then someone,  I think NASA  reproduced it  and they couldn't,  didn't see the effect.  Okay.  So,  I never did anything with it.  It's a very expensive  experiment to do.  Yeah.  It's something very large  superconductor  and spinning it.  Superconductors  are not cheap.  Yeah.  Because they weren't  in the 90s.  But,  I,  I,  I don't know.  I haven't seen anything  that's definitive.  Yeah.  There's this guy,  Poklatnov,  at the University  of Tampere  in Finland  who claims  weight reduction  based on  spinning superconductors.  And I believe  there might be a connection  between him  and Victor Schauberger,  this like,  World War II  Nazi,  I guess he was in Austria.  I don't want to call him  a Nazi.  I think he was just like  a hapless scientist.  But,  he had this whole model  for spinning superconductivity.  And I believe  Poklatnov's father  was like,  like Stasi guy  who was doing  tech retrieval  for the Soviets.  And so,  you know,  I think there's  some sort of lineage there.  Nick Cook  describes this  in his amazing book,  Hunt for Science.  Hunt for Zero Point.  And,  and then you have  Ning Li  popping up  in the early 2000s.  It's a great book, right?  it's awesome.  And then Ning Li has,  yeah,  he's amazing,  by the way,  everybody should read that book.  Nick Cook  is a hard-headed  aviation journalist  at Jane's Defense Weekly  in the UK.  And,  he just stumbles on  to all this  gravity research  in the 50s  and then realizes  it just vanishes  and goes nowhere.  And he looks through  the entire lineage  and there's so much smoke.  There probably has  to be some fire,  but like,  never kind of finds  a smoking gun.  Never knows exactly,  you know,  what the there there is.  But,  it's,  it's fascinating.  It is.  He eventually is like,  it's somewhere in America.  Yeah.  It has something to do  with Zero Point.  That's right.  That's right.  And that's where he ended it.  Do you think there,  that in the black  we've discovered  some of this stuff?  I honestly don't know.  Has the,  I,  I don't know.  That's,  I guess the Department  of War now  or the Pentagon  or DARPA,  have any of these organizations  reached out to you?  No.  It's so strange.  It's pretty sad.  I was hoping to be,  you know,  taken away  and work on some weird UFO project  in the basement.  I know.  Well, I mean,  Hasn't happened.  I mean,  if anybody should,  you know,  deserves it,  it's just,  it's so weird.  It's like,  it's like they already know  and are miles ahead  and they're sort of  gaslighting  and waiting for us  to catch up  because they're brain dead  and it's just bureaucracy.  Yeah.  And I don't know  if you lean on either side.  Yeah.  I don't really know.  Like,  your last interview  pointed out how few physicists  there were  for the retrieval program.  This can't add up.  It's,  it's a two-line proof.  It defies the laws of physics.  We haven't made progress.  We have no physicists.  You know,  I thought that was very interesting  because  my wife and I  were approached to help  with the UAP.  NASA was doing  their own UAP thing.  Yeah.  And they finished one report  with a second one,  a second follow-on.  Really?  Um,  I forget the name  of the gentleman  who reached out to us  saying,  yeah,  we're doing  this investigation again.  Really like your help.  I said,  oh,  okay,  just put me in  with all the physicists.  Oh,  there are no physicists.  What?  What do you mean  there's no physicists?  Why am I  the only physicist?  You know,  um,  and it's an instruments group  so they're,  they're,  they have advanced instruments  by that too.  Like why are there  no physicists here?  Maybe I'm missing something.  It's very bizarre.  Yeah.  I was like,  you would think  they would be only physicists.  That was one of the most  bizarre conversations  I've ever been a part of.  I was,  I had to watch that twice.  I was like,  are you serious?  Yeah.  Why,  why would there not be  any physicists?  I don't know.  Either again,  they figured it out  and they are sort of  gaslighting us  or they have this  limited hangout strategy  where  some of the more  popular physics frameworks,  like you hit certain  areas of it  and then you get  sucked up  or  it's brain dead  or  the UFO stuff  is so weird  and consciousness based  that our physics  is so clearly  kind of  not equipped  to deal with it  that it's like  futile  to even deal with  physicists.  I don't know.  I don't know.  But it was weird.  Did you,  you didn't see my,  um,  Gary McKinnon interview,  did you?  I was just a guy,  normal guy,  IT skills,  nothing genius level.  You hacked into  the Army,  the Navy,  the Air Force,  the Department of Defense  and NASA.  Do you know who that is?  Name sounds familiar.  So this is a guy  who,  he lives in the UK.  He was,  uh,  in 2001,  he was,  like,  in his  girlfriend's  aunt's basement  at 4 a.m.  smoking weed,  had some IT skills  because he worked  with a bank  and was a UFO nut,  obsessed with UFOs.  And,  so,  did some,  like,  basic blank  password  phishing  techniques  to essentially  hack into  NASA,  Navy,  Army,  CIA,  DIA,  like,  every elite.  Is that the guy  that's still trapped  over there?  He's still there.  Yeah,  because there's a live  arrest warrant  out for him now.  Theresa May,  former Prime Minister  of the UK,  has finally given him  kind of,  you know,  safe harbor  or whatever.  So he's there.  Um,  but he can't,  he's not allowed  in the U.S.  There's,  he's on the Interpol  red list.  And he  specifically  queried  when he was,  when he got in,  he was like,  oh my God,  I'm in.  And then he queried  the Johnson Space Center  because there were,  um,  there was a,  uh,  a UFO whistleblower  named Donna Hare  who worked there,  who saw  basically images  of UFOs  being airbrushed out  in a specific building,  building eight there.  And so he looked in  and he saw a Tic Tac  object  floating  around the Earth,  like in Earth's orbit.  And the hemisphere  comes into view  and it's very blocky.  But it's kind of  blue and white.  So I'm thinking,  wait,  it must be Earth.  And then suddenly  there's a big  straight kind of  silvery line  that is coming down.  Then that's,  I guess,  what they now call  a Tic Tac,  um,  And this was  in the early 2000s  before David Fravor's  sighting,  um,  at Nimitz.  Super wild,  um,  and interesting.  And then what,  so what,  for our purposes,  why I think this was  an interesting conversation  is he then  stumbles upon a list  of non-terrestrial  officers  of which  there are 40.  And it was very strange,  right?  Because as of now,  if you look at,  you know,  any of the,  you know,  uh,  it'll tell you  that we have like  roughly 10 people  in space,  like globally.  And so 40 people  in space,  that's strange,  right?  And it's,  the names  of these 40 people,  non-terrestrial officers,  fleet-to-fleet transfers  of these specific  materials.  And a lot  of the materials  are high-K dielectrics.  And they're,  they seem like these  thinly layered materials.  And then there was like  this one material,  I think it's like  mo,  molybdenum,  molybdenum?  Yeah,  molybdenum.  Molybdenum.  There you go.  And molybdenum  is good for like  alloying.  And so,  we came to the  crazy conclusion  on the spot  that maybe there is  a microgravity,  uh,  supply,  space supply chain  for materials  for these  high-K dielectrics,  which ironically,  those high-K dielectrics  work well  for these  experiments,  for these,  you know,  again,  the quacky word  is anti-gravity  experiments,  for these experiments  showing that,  you know,  this other force.  Okay,  so there's like  a space supply chain  where humans  are manufacturing  these exotic materials  in space  that you literally  couldn't,  uh,  make.  It's not physically  possible on Earth.  On Earth,  yes.  Yeah.  That's fascinating.  I don't think,  has anybody ever  explicitly tied together  your thing  like this,  like we're doing now?  No,  this is fresh  and unique.  I love this.  And there,  there are commercial  companies trying  this right now.  So for anybody  who thinks we're crazy,  like,  that's a thing.  And,  and then,  what would you do it  with first  in kind of a more,  you know,  like covert setting?  You would do it  on things that are  of extremely high value.  And,  you know,  if you,  if you produce materials  in microgravity,  you know,  the,  uh,  kind of signal  the noise  is much better.  You know,  there's less,  you know,  dust and interference  issues.  And so you could do  things like,  you know,  atomic layering,  you know,  way,  way easier.  And so I,  I wonder if there's  something like that  that then works  into some of these  experiments being done.  I don't know if you  have a take on that.  There's a lot there.  Yeah.  I mean,  yeah,  I mean,  we're working with  high K dielectrics  and layering materials  and,  you know,  different things,  but I have not heard  of anything going on  in space manufacturing  for that.  Okay.  Not on my end.  Okay.  But,  um,  it'd be very interesting.  Space manufacturing  is something NASA's  trying to get more  and more involved in  because of the,  some of the reasons  you mentioned.  Um,  but I've not heard  of any spacecraft  being manufactured  in space.  I have to ask you  while I have you,  what's your best argument  for the moon landing  hoax people?  Um,  I would say that the,  uh,  the lasers  that are  beaming back to Earth  or you can beam a,  there's reflectors.  We just put a new one  on from Firefly.  You can send a laser,  it'll come back.  So that's been there  since the Apollo days.  But you could put  a photo reflector  up there  with a rover  theoretically.  So it's not  super concrete evidence.  That's not super concrete,  but,  you know,  we do have a lot  of the Apollo samples.  Yeah.  We have 200 grams  or so in my lab.  Do you have some moon rocks?  Not the rocks,  the dust.  The dust,  okay.  The rocks were given out  to different countries  and stuff.  Okay.  JC probably still has  some rocks.  I don't have any rocks.  Okay.  It's vastly different  than the,  than the simulants  that we play with.  Yeah.  It's,  it's got a very high,  uh,  angle of repose.  Yeah.  So basically you try to,  try to flip it over  and it doesn't,  doesn't want to flip over.  It's very jagged.  It's got more of a,  it's got a really  and it feels more like  kind of,  like a rock.  Yeah.  So it's,  like,  you know,  uh,  you know,  it's kind of,  it's kind of too hard  to get it right.  So if you,  if you have a,  if you have a special  pulled off the experiment but do you have a good answer as to why it takes a bunch of things to  line up okay you have to have high voltage experience because these tests can be lethal  right they have to be packaged up properly put into a faraday cage or you're going to get  fake positives false positives you'll be attracted to walls or floors or ceilings you have to make  sure you're not doing that you have to prevent the ion wind which is very well known fun thing  to make does give you some forces but they're not what we're interested in um so there's a lot of  facets there then you have to have the technical savvy to you know show it in many different ways  pendulums spinners rotators force measurements scales all of those things and each one of those  can be fooled so you have to make sure that you are do your due diligence and do not you know  get any false positives especially on the scales everything has to be shielded pretty darn well  can i bring up another thing that i think limits um our ability to to do this i think it's um  the amount of people who think it's possible that there is another force outside of the  conventional forces and so you need a hypothesis to get you know a positive result in certain cases  and i think if you are so dogmatically you know confined to you know very conventional physics  you would never even try this experiment maybe and so you you have to  have the imagination to you know realize that there might be a there there to even try it in  the first place that's right that's right you have to you know try to do something if you believe in  it try to do it like i did with the field momentum the linear momentum i tried that for 15 20 years i  failed but that doesn't mean i had to give up i was still seeing a force even in that even  if it had nothing to do with that theory uh so you keep trying that's that's the best thing i can say  You got to keep trying if you believe it if you keep trying maybe you'll see something here  That's the case. I think and you think that this vindicates the work of Thomas Townsend Brown, too  Maybe he didn't understand what he was dealing with in the way that you do  But if he says he understood the iron wind like he said like he said he did  Yeah, he did things in oil. Mm-hmm where you can't have iron wind and he's possibly came across it  He might not be the only one. Yeah people that play with high voltage with asymmetrical capacity been around a long time  So it's it's entirely possible to maybe test law  Maybe I don't know if you too much. He did a lot of energy stuff. Yeah, I don't know either but um, there's actually you mentioned  Transmission oil there's a team in Japan  I believe they came out of Honda and I think musha is the  Scientist's name and he claims to they've submerged the capacitor in the transmission oil  Which you know apparently doesn't ionize or at least ionize very well  and they claim some results and they kind  Of have gone silent but like they never retracted those results that paper is still out there  So there's so much of this. There's another group of working with in Germany. He's reproducing this so really yeah, so it's coming. It's amazing  Well, I'm really excited to get into you have a full theory about how the thrust works in your Exodus  Experiments and it involves quantum electrodynamics  So I asked you if I could bring a friend of mine David Chester who is quantum electrodynamics?  specialist at the in a theoretical physicist and so are you down to have a group conversation we should we can change sets and  Sweet. All right. So we have David Chester here. He was a friend of mine. He  Got his undergrad at MIT  PhD from UCLA both in physics and is kind of specializes in general relativity as well as quantum field theory  but to me you are the guy who is  the kind of  intersection if you have kind of two circles in a Venn diagram of  Kind of smartest and best credentialed who will entertain all of the quacky stuff  And so we've had long conversations about a lot of this, you know extended electrodynamics and some of these weird  topological or experimental physics effects and you really I think understand kind of the lay of the land as well as anybody and I  Was speaking with you Charles about doing this interview and you were like I'm developing this  quantum electro dynamical theory of how this actually works and I was like, I  Probably won't be able to say anything about that, but David will so I'm really excited to have both of you  And maybe we start with you Charles if you could just kind of present  What the theory is and then you guys can kind of go back and forth?  Sure. No, but there's a good opportunity to talk to a real physicist about my you know, my proposed explanation  for with a force that I'm seeing so  I  Don't like to create stuff up. That's kind of one of my mantras. I don't want to do that  I want to use what's known in the physics community to see if it can explain what I'm seeing  I don't want to be one of those guys. I have to come up the whole new theory. I don't think that's necessary  So my approach was to say what are the tools we have now to try to explain this  Can it be done within conventional physics that we know just maybe one other step further or something?  You know within the realm of what we already know and we have a lot of tools in quantum electrodynamics  We have a lot of tools  So I started from what I have in my experiments basically two charges  So I have a plus and a minus charge  That's my starting point. I don't have anything else  Not as far as I know if I'm bending spacetime or doing something silly. That's beyond my knowledge  But are there the tools available to understand the forces in just knowing what we know with QED with two charges?  QED is very very powerful  I found an example of how QED can solve a very  Simple problem which can be easily solved with electrodynamics. So let's make it infinitely more complicated with QED  And that's what physicists do  It's because it's a more fundamental theory  So I started with QED to explain Coulomb's law force of attraction repulsion between two particles  So that's very well explained with Coulomb's law  But in the context of QED I found a book called  That actually did this in my grad school. We were not trained how to do that  It's not uncommon  There's a lot of very remedial physics problems that take two or three hours to solve that are not going to cover in a class  But I saw the QED version of it. It's not this is very very helpful. I know where it comes from  I know where the I know where the momentum's come from  And then you do the math appropriately, you'll get Coulomb's law coming out of it and Coulomb's law for people not familiar  Can you describe it very basically?  so basically  It shows that if you have two particles their force is  Related by one over the square of the distance away relation to the the charge the charges that you have  very simple rudimentary physics and it explains things like electron repulsion  To like forces repelling it basically explains everything that we know about two particles two charges  We have just about everything QED explains why how atoms are bound together. Sure. Yeah, so I did not think we needed QC  QCD?  quantum chromodynamics  W. Particles z particles, I didn't think we needed that  We're not looking at the interactions between protons and neutrons. So we're not looking at the high energy  well, we're just looking at low-energy  Coulomb charges that's it and when you say you're explaining the Coulomb charge with quantum electrodynamics. How is it normally explained?  Usually you'll do, you know Maxwell's equations or something simple. Okay to derive Coulomb's law  It's not very complicated F equals Qe  so we know the electric field is point part point charge times q and maxwell's equations govern  electromagnetism all of that 19th century that's right okay but what they don't tell you is how do  these particles interact like what's causing them to repel or attract and what is the physical  mechanism qed provides us a nice little solution qed says well thanks to quantum or a feinman  schwinger they are exchanging virtual particles so they're not real particles you can't see them  you can't observe them but they're virtual so basically you can picture this is the cartoon  that people use you have two ice skaters one of them is holding a bowling ball they the first  one throws a bowling ball so they recoil the second person catches the bowling ball so they  fall back uh except there's no bowling ball so not real one that you can see but you can see  the interaction between the two particles and that's the feinman diagram and what you do is  each time you write a feinman diagram each one of those lines in the fire  fine  diagram represent a different term and you multiply them all up and you get what's called  the scattering matrix element and you can try to find how these things interact if you were to take  this particle a and shoot it at particle b you could see where it deflects on a board somewhere  if you if you actually measure that that interaction is all described in that qed  using qed to solve for to derive coulomb's law is very complicated but i found a book that did  it so i copied that looked at what they did i said okay this is a good model let me just do  one thing different i don't have just coulomb's law i have something else so what i think it is  and what i proposed now is what would happen if i just went to the next order so quantum  electrodynamics the qed doing coulomb's law is a second order equation on using time independent  perturbation theory perturbation theory is the best tool that we have in physics i think bar none  perturbation theory it's awesome it's outstanding it's very powerful what is perturbation theory  high level high level so high level you can get the energy states or the the states themselves  using perturbations you just change the whole thing you you change an energy state you add  that back in you do another perturbation you see how it changes with a small perturbation  of the energy in this case or the states and involves so and there are many perturbations  so i'm using second order perturbation theory for that's the lowest  perturbation and i think the highest perturbation for two charges and coulomb's law and after that  i don't think anyone's done anything after that because you not only get a close answer you get  the exact answer so i was like why go further you have two particles they either attract or repel  that's cool is all do you need to go further not so i'm like well this force with um that i've seen  with exodus select our static pressure force um is much much weaker than coulombs all there's no doubt  much weaker but i decided well let's try the third order what does that give me and when i  tried it with my math which may not be perfect i'm sure i was seeing three charges now so basically  one of the charges was weighed twice multiplied by itself and then the third order is being  multiplied by the first charge so there's already an asymmetry sort of in the charges even with two  charges which i thought was useful because i wanted to try to get that with classical um  and then the third order is weighing the two charges so it's not just the three charges  different from what we've seen in the classical electric dynamics you can't derive that from  classical energy three charges but the qed was kind of nice to show that so i looked at that  and i said okay there's there's not there's no longer four terms like there are in the  you know the second what would classical electrodynamics give you if not so basically when you  try to do um conservation of energy you start with a kinetic energy and potential energy and so for  adding more charges to a system you just keep adding more and more charges to a system the  superposition principle adds them all up it doesn't multiply them all up it adds them all up  but i needed the addition i needed the the pressure that i'm creating working on the charges  that i'm creating so i have a pressure on one side charged from the other so i have a multiplication  effect experimentally so i didn't know how to drive that other than quantum electrodynamics but  it classically doesn't show that but i thought maybe qed might and it shows up there  um but that was the first thing and the other thing there were 12 terms now instead of four  because i'm i'm scattering so what happens in qed or um time independent perturbation  theory you start from the zero the state the vacuum state you scatter to the first state  then you go from first state you scatter to the second state and go second state scattered zero  state that's just how it works there's a lot of scattering uh states and matrices that you  have to solve for then you multiply them together so i have 12 terms now some of the terms are kind  of interesting uh it looks like that when you draw the diagrams from those states that you looks like  um you get the same things you had in second water perturbation theory where you have a  they'll exchange a photon the other ones will absorb it vice versa but there are some states  are a little weird you'll have states where they'll just absorb or just emit kind of like the  first order  hmm which i didn't talk about but the first order is basically just a charge with field line  or not field line but with basically a charge with a scalar photon so you have there's four  kinds of photons in qed one of them is real one of them is observable the other three are not  but um real two of them are real i thought i only read there's only one of them was real well you  have uh h you have plus and minus h bar for two different spin states okay well that's cool two  of them are real if it was massive it would be three but since the photon's massless you get two  states i mean light is polarized you can polarize it in a okay i didn't know if that applied because  i just remember the textbook saying one of them was real okay but anyway so these are not real  things but in qed um you look at the vertices and every time you draw a vertice  you conserve momentum at that point so if a particle comes in it's you know we use these  silly fiber and diagrams they're not cartesian coordinates at all but they're basically a momentum  vector and then the momentum changes and when the momentum changes another momentum is created or  absorbed then that's all it is you can't think of it any more literal than that um so that's what the  that's what i should you know i see in third order third order are these vertices that are  either giving out these scalar photons or absorbing them whatever these things are in reality is how  these things seem to be conserving momentum if this model is correct so that's the difference  between the third order and the second order at least what i found mathematically is that  you don't absorb this you don't emit this scalar photon and absorb it in the same pairing with the  two charges there are cases where the two charges emit and don't absorb or absorb and don't emit and  what is a scalar photon as opposed to a photon it's a mathematical photon you can describe it  better than i can but it has many names dark photons and deals with that is it different  i think it is anyway i think it's just it's a mathematical term okay it doesn't have the  polarization that a real photon has right yeah very different yeah it's just a mathematical  term that you put inside the matrices and you get the i don't know how it works so what are  the what are the scalar it's a scalar it's a scalar there's no vector yeah so the idea of  uh just emitting or absorbing these scalar photons in this third order perturbation  how does that allow for this effect that looks like this new force in electrostatics or it looks  like anti-gravity or you know what you're kind of experiencing well what it shows is you have  an imbalance and the system can be made to be imbalanced which is weird so because you're not  enclosing i don't know what happens to these scaled photons where they go or i don't even  know if they go anywhere they might terminate somewhere else in the universe i don't know  e-fields don't do that they do terminate somewhere but uh it does you know show this  weird kind of you know imparting into momentum into something that is already asymmetric so it's  very odd so wherever you have these yeah wherever you have these i think um that's where the field  is non-zero where these things exist where these things don't exist is where the field is zero so  that's the difference  um where these things don't exist is where the field is zero so that's the difference  it's basically an electric field and super high level you end up with this  kind of virtual particle transfer and due to conservation of momentum you end up with thrust  i think so okay and what do you think david chester well first of all i want to commend  you on your experimental efforts i think you're really brave with what you're doing and it's quite  amazing how much data you guys have been collecting however i would just advise you  to be a little careful with some of the theoretical claims you're making uh first of all  it sounds like you're saying you can get uh a momentum yeah you're getting a kick in momentum  in the center of mass frame however typically in qed uh well momentum is conserved and you still  have translational symmetry so you're i mean you're typically not able to get virtual photons  to give radiation that's the that's the first thing so it sounded like you were saying you  you believe that there's this scalar virtual photon  that is getting radiated out uh there's i see two issues with that the first being  first of all i mean the scalar mode in qed is not physical second of all so you could say maybe  there's some virtual stuff going on in that but the virtual particles typically refer to internal  lines whereas in the feiman diagrams whereas the you know the radiation are the external lines so  you can't have a virtual radiation  uh non- entrev �lf or an external ray-switching transition mode in qed so that seems to be  so what is action what is the uh the equivalent i guess i mean i'm not exactly sure closed  i don't know what's going on i don't know the best way to describe  your experiment if that's what you're getting at no like just trying to figure out like how  would you draw the final diagram for just a point charge in its field not the self-energy but just  the regular well yeah so if you think about what the electric field is it's the force that you  would get if you had a test charge located there so you could imagine exactly as you're saying  uh you know it's a four point tree level scattering diamond diagram where you have two  electrons going in two electrons going out and you could have it's a little subtle here because it's  a classical phenomenon but there is that internal line and at first it becomes virtual meaning it  it can have complex momentum that's off-shell but there's also momentum conservation as you're  saying so that when you do that thymine diagram and you're integrating over the momentum you get  this delta function from momentum conservation and that basically conserves uh momentum such that you  know you get classical momentum that can be transferred from one electron to another and then  they can get forced apart and you know you should it's worth mentioning you can also find the  electric field in classical electronics you can find the electric field in classical electronics  dynamics for as many charges as you want it sound maybe i misheard you but it sounded like you  were saying you can't study things classically for three charges or something but well not  multiplied together i think the superposition is an addition of all the charges i also noticed so  you mentioned that you're doing time independent perturbation theory which i didn't pick that up  so perturbation theory yeah mathematically it's kind of like a taylor expansion so  the basic idea is you can have polynomials so you could have  you know a constant term then a linear term and then a quadratic term and the idea is  if you're doing an approximation let's hopefully the thing is small so the higher order terms can  be neglected and then so perturbation theory is this approximation scheme that you can use  uh to find solutions to things and there's different ways you can apply perturbation theory  in physics typically when you refer to perturbation theory in quantum electrodynamics it's not about  time independence it's more about  when you write down the fyman diagrams you can have what they call tree level diagrams and then  loop level diagrams typically the the tree level the tree level diagrams correspond to the classical  interactions and the number of loops in the diagram is the level of perturbation theory  you're at so the language that i'm familiar with is you'd have the classical theories  essentially the zero third order terms and you can think of it as a perturbation in h bar  because h bar is small that's a kind of way to colloquially think colloquially think of it and so  you could have a one loop diagram that would be a first order correction a two loop diagram second  order so on and so forth however i mean in quantum mechanics before getting into quantum field theory  you could i'm pretty sure that you you could do time independent perturbation theory i mean for  what you're working with you have a lot of dc is dc so there's no time dependence right and so you  could look at the frequency and you could say well it's a really long wavelength uh excitation so  i'm actually you know i'll have to think more about what exactly you are doing because i just  assumed that you were doing the typical perturbation theory of quantum field  theory but now you're saying you're mentioning time independent perturbation theory so yeah  i've i've seen some of your your notes obviously you haven't published something yet so i haven't  you know i i looked through what you were able to send me but i'm just realizing now that you  mentioned time independent perturbation theory which wasn't what i was thinking so maybe that  it's worth disentangling it's not saying you have necessarily have an error there but um  i'm just realizing that now no i mean i you know this is i haven't done qed in 26 years yeah so  could use a refresher yeah but um i was just intrigued by just doing the time independent  perturbation theory and getting something i love your help translating some of that uh the vertices  don't end. I understand these particles don't, they're not real, right? You can't capture them,  but I pictured them more like electric fields where you, you can't pull the field from the  charge, right? Have you now field line? It doesn't work that way. And that's what these  things I think represent. So that's why we have things like renormalization, these really  complicated tools to try to address these infinities, a lot of infinities here. And  that, that is a nasty integral that I have not been able to solve. Yeah. Yeah. I'm only  looking at the cartoon picture, trying to interpret it. But if you want to help me with  that, that'd be awesome. With the real math, I had five, six kids started to work on that  gamma functions, error functions. These are not fun things. Yeah. The integrals are definitely  hard. They are not hard. It's not a beautiful solution. Like Kuhlman's like, it's different.  Does the fact that Charles is talking about a time,  independent perturbation, which you kind of hadn't anticipated before the conversation,  did that change anything as far as the viability in your mind with QED? Or is it,  is that something you have to kind of think about offline?  You can do, you could, you could do perturbations with frequency at the classical level. So  if you're claiming it's a quantum effect at some point, I think, I believe, I mean,  with the five diagrams that you have, would there be any loops in the diagrams?  That you've been studying?  Well, the zero sorters are there, right? The non, where they start and the end. Yeah.  Also, the self energy you're talking about? Yeah. Yeah, there's self energy terms. There's 12 terms.  And I think half of them are not very useful. But maybe the other half are. That's the, that's what  I'm proposing. Maybe they're interesting. Because they don't, they don't close in, like you would  want them to. You can't make the picture nice and neat in your head. And so it's, this is a game.  And I love this game.  Because it's like, try to try to use your mind. And our brains are not good at this. If I take two  charges, we know they can attract and we know they can repel. But if you didn't see this one,  and you see this one, go there, go there, your brain will say, Oh, I can't do that.  Or if I take two charges, and I stick them on a box, don't let them touch. Take the  electrodes away. Are they still attracting? Damn right they are. For how long? Forever. So,  that is a fundamental property of charge fields, which QD I think explains quite well. So, but is it  conserving energy? You know, that's what you have to think about. Is it conserving energy? Still,  you've removed all your energy to get that there. Why is it still there? So there's, there's a little  mind games with this, I think, kind of helps. I think this Exodus is kind of a, here's another  mind game for you.  I mean, it, it is hard to imagine what is going on there.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You have to experimentally, I, I, I don't know what's going on. I, it, but it's, it's curious  because we have Noether's theorem, which describes energy momentum conservation from space-time  translation symmetry. And Noether was actually studying quantum field theory and discovered  something profound about classical mechanics, about the conservation laws, but even still,  things are conserved off-shell. So it's hard to, as you're saying, I mean, maybe there's some  charges that we're overlooking.  Right. But they're, they're honestly, it's at the point where if it appeared as if momentum  conservation was violated, then you would claim that there's something else there that we don't  understand. Right. There must be something carrying that momentum. Yeah. I mean, that's  how the neutrino was discovered. Initially they, they had these decay channels and they were  counting the energy. They're accounting for the energy is like, wait a second. This, the  bookkeeping isn't adding up. Yeah.  And then isn't that how science kind of moves forward in some ways, I guess, if you were to  take your physics hat off and just as a human being, look at all of the kind of overwhelming  anecdotal evidence, cuz I know you've, you've kind of systematically surveyed a lot of these  like weird fringe experiments and exotic propulsion, free energy, all sorts of things like  that. And to me, you know, with the, without the, any sort of physics background, I think you almost  have to say that there isn't some sort of there, there specifically around the lineage of the type  of stuff that, that Charles is discussing. I don't know what, what you would say there.  Um, yeah. What, what do you think? Because clearly that is a way often that science moves forward.  You know, if you look at, you know, Thomas Kuhn in the, you know, uh, uh, structure of scientific  revolutions, it's this like anomaly build up and then that sort of breaks the dam. And then the  theory often is playing catch up on the anomaly. Yeah, definitely. It can go both ways as well,  I mean, certainly out of all of these weird phenomena that seem to not fit into conventional  theory, I mean, I would say your experimental results are, you know, gotta be in the top 10 in,  in terms of most convincing things I've seen. I mean, there's other groups where they do one  experiment and they're measuring Picot-Newton forces, right? We've all heard these stories and  then people get into Debates. Oh, is it some experimental error? Obviously, as you point out,  you're not 100 sure there could be some prosaic explanation but the fact that you've done so many  different things and you're seeing the self-consistency i mean even as a scientist  i have to say that is encouraging and we should explore this further it's not something we should  just sweep under the rug and forget about what would be your best way you know obviously you  haven't like rigorously uh kind of studied the experiment itself you haven't been like on site  with them but would you have any way of explaining it away like if he is controlling for and  eliminating this ion wind effect and actually showing that in a vacuum chamber you get more  thrust you know that to me that feels like pretty pretty convincing and then obviously this is being  done in a faraday cage you know so there's no electric field interference is there any way  that you could kind of poke at it or kind of straw man it from afar honestly no and i i've  interacted with a lot of people who have done this and they've done this and they've done this  and they've done this and they've done this and they've done this and they've done this and they've done this  drew multiple times on apec with tim ventura i've had private communications with him  i've interacted with him publicly i've seen these i've seen him his aeration rate first of all is  phenomenal right he's just always testing new things trying different stacks with different  materials and different geometries and he's really dialing it in it's it's really impressive  the the innovation rate that he's he's going at and your whole team and so i mean if if i'm just  if you've checked all these things that you say you've checked, right?  I, I, obviously I haven't been in the lab with you, but it is,  I can't think of anything to be honest. I,  I can't think of any prosaic explanation. I mean, if you know that you're right,  there's not much magnetic stuff going on.  There's a lot of electrostatics, right? Not much charge moving. I,  it's just so mind blowing though. I mean,  the idea that the claim is you power it up and then you unplug it from the wall  and then the thrust continues in indefinitely. Well, you know,  obviously you haven't tested it for an infinite amount of time.  Drew would sometimes act as if it would last forever. I mean,  my skeptical brain is saying, well,  eventually wouldn't that capacitor discharge, but still,  even if it lasts a day, you know,  it seems like it lasts longer than a day from what you guys have done.  As far as I can tell in terms of the claims, it's, it's,  it's hard to imagine how, how could that be?  Continued like the fact that it's not getting drained, you would think, okay,  well, wouldn't it require energy to get that thrust?  Wouldn't that quickly drain the capacitor?  And it doesn't seem to be what you're claiming.  You've tested it in so many different ways that it's, it's,  it's a tough challenge for anyone to try to describe what's going on there.  It's very mysterious.  You're also friends with and, um,  looked at the experiments done by Falcon space in this sort of area in this sort  of electro-gravitic or maybe, you know,  new electrostatic force area.  Uh, they basically tried to pull off the Byfield-Brown effect.  Uh, what was your take on that experiment?  Yeah.  So it was actually interesting.  It was curious.  So it's not scientifically conclusive.  We, not all of the experimental errors ruled out,  but there was something interesting that was seen where they did the tests at  not too low pressure and they noticed it's spinning in one direction.  And then eventually they kept pumping down further and further.  And eventually it started spinning in the other direction,  which it's qualitative.  We don't know how strong the forces,  I don't know what the friction was that they had a nice mechanism to hold it up.  So it minimized the friction using magnets,  which introduces additional potential errors,  but I'm not too worried about the magnets.  But if you're going to do a demonstration for others that are skeptical,  you should probably,  maybe think to another way.  So it was,  I think it was interesting and it was worth further study.  It's suggestive,  but not conclusive.  I would say where more work is needed because of the,  the magnets or what will be the honestly.  So there,  there was this other thing where the way the high voltage was delivered to the  thrusters on one end,  it used the spiraling around the chamber.  I mean,  that's something you'd point out and say,  ah,  let's just say it's that honestly,  I doubt it would be,  causing what was seen,  but you know,  it's something to consider really to get a confirmed thing.  It's best to do multiple tests,  right?  Not just one and do it in different ways,  but really another issue potentially was the fact that there were these  discharges that were observed and Tim Ventura was actually one of the first to  kind of get a little skeptical to some degree because he had worked with those  ion lifters back in the day,  with the triangular ones and the tinfoil.  And so he had worked with high voltage and he was aware because it took me time to realize this.  You would think naively,  well,  okay,  there's this,  all this ion wind stuff and that's because you're ionizing the air.  So you just remove the air and do it in vacuum and I'm good,  right?  No,  I am going to worry about,  but what if there's ions or electrons literally flying off the thruster itself?  Or what if the wires connecting them,  we could see different discharges that were occurring.  So what if you're spraying out these ions?  What if that's causing the force?  So it's something that it's also amazing to look into it.  It's first of all,  it's a challenge enough just to work with high vacuum systems.  Then it's another challenge.  I mean,  you're well aware of this stuff to work with high voltage,  but then to combine the two,  it's remarkable because you definitely want to enclose everything with the can.  I saw a marker.  Mark's video.  I was worried about the coil because that would be dubious.  Why do you have a ground there?  But it's not a ground,  I guess is the high voltage wire.  But it's interesting that it went one way,  like you would expect if it was a corona wind and then you pump it down,  goes the other way.  That would be,  that's cool to see.  Yeah.  So you don't,  like you say,  you don't want the discharges.  You don't want the current coming off even in a high vacuum.  You'll get field emission.  It's called from material.  So you want to kind of make sure you encapsulate everything.  So,  that would be the only thing that might be a hiccup is the,  is the possibility of field emission,  but I've not seen the experiment.  So,  but that's easy to prevent.  You can Corona dope it.  You can do all kinds of things to kind of prevent that get encapsulated.  But yeah.  Yeah.  So I found it encouraging,  but you got to keep studying further,  I think,  you know,  to really get to the bottom of it.  Well,  on that note,  I know we went deep into all sorts of,  you know,  out there,  out there theories.  Um,  but this was super,  super helpful.  And if,  if you were to give Charles any advice as far as kind of fleshing out his  theory or,  you know,  um,  places to look,  what,  what,  what would it be?  Well,  I would say,  yeah.  So if you,  if you're doing it,  you could consider two different types of bird perturbation theory at the same  time.  So you can do the time independent one and you can do the H bar,  the quantum corrections as well.  So you could keep track of both of those.  It's a little more complicated.  You might not even need the time independent assumption,  but,  but since you're working with electric sacks,  I also see why you're doing that.  So it could make sense to do that approximation because it would simplify  things,  but then you just gotta be,  yeah.  I mean,  if it's truly DC,  yeah,  you,  it probably would be a good approximation to do.  Um,  yeah.  So I think that would be one thing to do just,  um,  yeah.  Look into renormalization,  the self energy,  uh,  those pervert per perturbative corrections can affect the electron self energy.  Also,  this is a puzzling thing.  If you look at the direct spinner,  which is used for your electron in quantum electrodynamics,  the spinner field,  those equations of moat,  you can still have classical equations of motion for a quantum field.  And those equations might have E or H bar C.  So you can get alpha in thing in classical equations,  but it's subtle because it's a quantum field theory,  but you know,  there's a classical limit there.  So yeah,  I would say I honestly just try to learn it.  As much as you can keep trying to,  you know,  we can,  we can correspond via email and try to talk more about quantum electrodynamics  and we'll see,  I,  you know,  maybe something more is needed,  but I think it's a good effort to at least see where does quantum electrodynamics take you.  Sure.  But also just recognize it is a possibility that the results you're finding can't be described by quantum electrodynamics.  Just keep that in mind.  Yeah.  You know,  the reason why we like to use the QED,  we haven't mentioned it much,  but,  um,  because of the alpha that shows up experimentally,  you know,  that's,  that's really cool.  So the fine structure,  you know,  showing up in terms of the forces and fine structure,  constant squared.  So it's always some kind of function of alpha keeps showing up experimentally.  There's not too many experiments you could do in your garage to get you an alpha.  And that points towards quantum electrodynamics.  It points to quantum.  Quantum in general.  Quantum.  Yeah.  No one knows where alpha comes from.  I don't think anyone has a clue,  but it's there.  Why does the fact that a fine structure,  constant is showing up point towards a quantum mechanical effect?  That's a good question.  So it's the coupling between fields and charge is what alpha.  Okay.  Okay.  So it's not too surprised.  So it's like a,  it's like a primitive in quantum mechanics and that keeps showing up.  In physics in general,  and it shows up all over the place.  Yeah.  There's also another way to look at it where you can kind of look at it from a natural unit perspective and just kind of set H bar and C to one.  I know a lot of people might not like that,  but sorry,  I don't like that.  Yeah.  I can understand why I get what you're saying,  but I mean,  at the end of the day,  alpha is proportional to was E squared and the interaction term between the electron and the photon introduces a factor of alpha.  So once you,  you have that Feynman vertex where you have an electron positron and a photon,  there's like a factor of alpha there.  Yeah.  And so if you're going to build these loop order corrections,  you're going to need more vertices.  So you will require,  you're going to require more factors of alpha as you go out in the quantum perturbation theory.  However,  just remember that even for the Coulomb force where it's a tree diagram,  no loops,  there's still,  you could do a unitarity cut on that photon internal line,  and there's still two interaction vertices alpha and alpha that get multiplied together even for a classical process.  So certainly tracking powers of alpha is helpful in perturbation theory.  But just keep in mind that it comes in at the classical level as well.  It's exciting.  Yeah.  Cause I've been doing the driving the orders of magnitude between third order.  I think I didn't go to fourth order,  but yeah,  it actually is fourth order,  third order,  second order,  first order.  And you could see the perturbations in alpha alpha is nice to use because it's dimensionless is the ratio of the energy of two charges divided by a photon of that same web wavelength.  Oh,  how far apart those two charges are.  So that's what alpha is.  It's the ratio of two energies.  That's the best way to describe the Somerfeld constant.  So,  oh,  there was something else I want to mention you too.  You had mentioned the term hidden momentum.  So I believe there is work certainly by the 1980s where if the,  because in classical electrodynamics,  the pointing vector is what carries the momentum density.  And that is proportional to E cross B.  And so there were,  there were experiments where people have part of the reason why hidden momentum is found was in statics as well,  where they had an electric field that was static and a magnetic field that was static and they're perpendicular.  So you get this E cross B and it was puzzling because you would have a pointing vector implying there's momentum.  But I mean,  I'm pretty sure if you just take a symmetric capacitor with an electric field going through,  and then you put it inside a solenoid,  with a magnetic field perpendicular,  nothing's going to thrust,  right?  And the hidden momentum is what describes what cancels out so that you don't get thrust in those experiments.  So that's just another thing to look into.  That's where I started,  right?  So I started looking at field momentum being converted into linear angular linear momentum.  And the crux was this 1970s hidden momentum,  which is a relativistic effect.  So even if you have a magnetic field,  a current,  you can always,  you can always draw that as like a kind of a square.  And whenever there's the Faraday field,  it will accelerate charges in one loop and decelerate them in the other loop.  So it's basically a kind of a change in momentum physically of the loop of the electrons hitting the walls.  That's how they describe the hidden,  hidden momentum.  So every time you have a static E cross B,  nothing moved,  like you can't,  you have a highly charged electric,  you know,  electric charge to a bar magnet doesn't fly across the room because of the hidden momentum.  So that can be scaled down microscopically.  So even the magnetic moments,  can be pictured as little currents and they have hidden momentum because they're relativistic.  So I first started out for less.  I started out in the two thousands to look at maybe the conversion from field momentum to mechanical momentum could happen like it does in the angular case,  but for linear momentum,  if there's no hidden momentum.  So what's the opposite of relativistic charges moving electrostatics,  keep the charges static to static charges,  possess,  hidden momentum.  And that's my,  my theory was it didn't.  So that led me down to that path where in 2010,  I saw the forces initially could have been something else,  but that's where I started.  And it wasn't until after two years working with drew,  I said,  Oh, Drew's got the,  he's got the conversion down from field momentum to mechanical momentum without static charges.  My wife pointed that out.  And so we did the test.  And so for two years,  we thought that's what the case wasn't until 2018.  Where I realized that I didn't even need the current.  So I'm not even setting up the E cross B fields anymore to this.  There's two electric fields and one magnetic field for that all to work.  You have the E cross B,  and then you,  you kill the B to make a second E field called the Faraday's law field to convert it into mechanical momentum.  But if you don't have hidden momentum,  you should see thrust.  So that's what we thought we were seeing until I realized just before going to college,  going on a trip that I didn't even need a B field or a current.  So,  Oh man,  I'm in pure electrostatics mode.  Whoa.  So I don't have any field momentum,  which was good and bad.  Let us down this path.  Yeah.  Okay.  So now we'll have to study that first before going back to that,  which is far more complicated.  Super fascinating.  Well, this has been a really fun discussion, David,  thank you so much for lending your expertise here and for, uh,  for lending your expertise here and for, uh,  you know,  talking to Charles,  uh,  in a,  in a way that's clearly like not dogmatic about the experimental results,  uh,  uh,  and then kind of helping sharpen his,  his blade on the quantum electric dynamics.  So really appreciate you both.  Thank you.  Thanks for having us.  And it's a pleasure meeting you.  It's a pleasure meeting you too.  Thank you.
