================================================================================
Intelligent Disclosure - FBI Conspiracy
Enhanced Transcript with Speaker Identification
================================================================================

METADATA:
----------------------------------------
  Duration:      1h 6m 33s
  Language:      EN
  Processed:     2026-01-16 21:43

TRANSCRIPT:
================================================================================
[0:00:00] Richard Dolan:
My wife and better half Tracy is not here tonight.
As you can see, I'm sitting here all alone in the office.
She'll be back next week.
Word is she's probably gonna stop in the chat room at some point tonight.
So hopefully we'll get to hear from her. But she's out of town.
I miss her and I think we're all better off with her here.
But on the other side of it, I've got a lot to talk about with you tonight and
it's important. I spent a good portion of the day looking into this.
So I wanna spend some time on this and jump right in.
This is on a subject that came out in the news about two weeks ago.
It was reported in Yahoo News on August 1st. Yahoo News, go figure.
They actually came up with something this time.
And it's on a topic that got a little bit of mainstream attention and a little
bit of attention in the alternative news media.
But in my opinion, not really enough.
And in my view also, not a whole lot of analysis.
So what I've decided to do is really dig into this document and give my go at it
and go over this with you.
And I'm talking about a piece that was, I'm gonna share the screen here with
you. I've got this right here.
I'm gonna be doing this all of this program, sharing the screen with you.
By the way, you'll notice, I'm not using the old Google Hangouts, that's gone.
I really wanna thank Mike Moriarty for showing me StreamYard.
That's what the software I'm using here.
And this allows me to keep my little picture within a picture while I show you
the screen. I'm not that tech savvy with a lot of this stuff.
So this for me is a big step up.
The other thing I just wanna say in preface to everything that's going to follow
is, this subject is one of these borderline subjects that I occasionally get
taken into the YouTube principal office for when I talk about it.
And I'm going to really work very hard I wanna treat this subject in a balanced
and non-incendiary way.
This is a very important piece of information for any of us who believe in
freedom of inquiry within a free society.
So, you know, the rules for YouTube, what they allow, what they don't allow is
an ever moving goalpost.
You never really know week to week, what's on the good list and what's on the
bad list with YouTube.
So there's been a number of times in the past where I've done programs that I
felt were very, very responsible dealing with topics that are important.
And yet many times YouTube has decided not to, they've never taken my videos
down, but they, they love to demonetize.
And look, it's not the end of the world.
If they wanna demonetize, that's their, that's their right, I suppose.
But it makes it very difficult for content creators to keep doing this when
YouTube continues, you know, to change the rules of what they allow and what
they don't allow.
You know, they are the ultimate finger wagging schoolmarm these days telling
people what, what's safe for them to believe and what's not safe for them to
believe and so forth.
So for this particular program, I'm taking this as a kind of test.
I want to see actually how they respond to this.
And by the way, when, after this is done, this video is done, I'm going to put
in the description, the results of this, how YouTube has treated, this video.
Do they demonetize? Are they not? And so forth. So we'll see.
All right, so anyway, the story that I want to talk about and the analysis I
want to do with you tonight is, this is a headline right here.
So this is from Yahoo News, August 1st.
And it just says exclusive, FBI document warns conspiracy theories are a new
domestic terrorism threat. Sure a lot of you heard about this.
This has been out now for two weeks. And I read the article when it first
[0:03:53] UNKNOWN:
came
[0:03:53] Richard Dolan:
out, It came out. It was very distressing to me. I want to talk about this.
Now, one thing I want to try to do is avoid excessive amounts of opinionating on
this subject.
It's going to be unavoidable for me, but I also really want to do this right and
to do this responsibly for you. So let's move ahead.
And by the way, I've got the document here for you, and I'm going to be showing
you quite a bit of it. So this is page one of the document, at least most of it.
And you can go to the link, the Yahoo News link is below.
And then at the very bottom, you can get to the FBI document itself.
This is an intelligence bulletin, and it's at Scribd.
And probably the easiest way for you to do it is just Google or use any other
search engine, DuckDuckGo, whatever.
Type in Scribd and the FBI intelligence bulletin.
You'll probably find it easily. Or just type in all of those numbers there.
So the title of this is Anti-Government Identity, Bias, and Fraud.
Fringe Political Conspiracy Theories Very Likely Motivate Some Domestic
Extremists to Commit Criminal, Sometimes Violent Activity.
That's the rather long title of this report.
So again, I want to go over some of this here with you. Here we go.
Now, again, I will encourage you because very, I haven't seen any analysts
that's actually gone into this document.
Maybe they haven't, I've just missed it.
But I will encourage you to go to the Scribd website and take this document
down.
But I'm going to go over what I feel are the most important highlights, at least
the things that struck me as most significant. So again, this is an FBI report.
It's from May 30th, by the way, of this year, 2019.
And the analyst here is essentially stating that some conspiracy theories,
certain conspiracy theory narratives tacitly support or legitimize violent
action. And then it goes on here.
The FBI assesses these conspiracy theories very likely will emerge, spread, and
evolve in the modern information marketplace, occasionally driving both groups
and individual extremists to carry out criminal or violent acts.
So that sounds very, very dangerous, very threatening.
And I will simply add in going through the news and videos that are available on
this, there's quite a few, I think, two particularly smaller alternative-type
media that are very critical of all of this.
But there's a really large number of mainstream, or at least more mainstream-
oriented presentations that are very sympathetic to what the FBI is doing here.
And they really believe it's a good thing to be cracking down on these
extremists.
Now, the way that the news media portray this is that it's essentially dealing
with white supremacists, that's, I think, really the number one talking point
that you hear with this document.
And indeed, that is part of what's going on here.
But there's a lot of other things going on in this document that are extremely
important I want to go over. So they, whoops, let me just fix that light there.
Thank
[0:07:17] UNKNOWN:
you,
[0:07:17] Richard Dolan:
pardon. Okay, it looks like I lost a light. I'll have to fix that later.
My goodness. All
[0:07:27] UNKNOWN:
right.
[0:07:28] Richard Dolan:
So it continues and says, indicators, they feel very confident in their
assessment of how these conspiracy theories are gonna be dangerous, potentially
violent, and so forth.
Then they say something really quite interesting, and I haven't heard discussed
anywhere else in any other source here.
And it's very simply that they say indicators that may lead to revised judgments
or cause a change in the confidence level associated with this assessment.
So they're saying, here's two things that are gonna lead us to revise our
judgment that these conspiracy theories are probable, or that these conspiracy
theories are probably likely to lead to violence or terrorism.
First, a lack of conspiracy-driven criminal or violent activity in the near to
long-term. Okay, so just stop right there.
So what they're saying, as far as I can read this, is we'll change our judgment
on our confidence level of this if nothing happens in the near or long-term.
So, well, that's great to know that the FBI is at least that amenable to actual
data and actual facts as they occur.
That just seems like a pretty bare-bones sort of a thing there.
And then here's the second thing, which is actually quite interesting.
Significant efforts by major social media companies and websites to remove,
regulate, or counter potentially harmful conspiratorial content.
So I just wanna repeat this again.
So this is something that will allow the FBI to revise its judgment in the
future.
If significant efforts are made by major social media companies and websites to
remove, regulate, or counter potentially harmful conspiratorial content.
My take on this, and this is not a radical take whatsoever, is they're basically
tacitly and fairly explicitly asking major social media companies to regulate
and remove and counter this conspiratorial content.
So I think this is a request for soft banning and more censorship.
This is, I don't see how else one can interpret that.
I wanna continue onward here, and then I've got a bit more analysis for you.
Anti-government, identity-based, fringe political conspiracy theories very
likely to motivate. Okay, I read that. And then it goes on here.
They talk about, oh yes.
So how some of these domestic extremists attributed their actions to their
conspiratorial beliefs. What is a conspiratorial belief?
Well, we'll get to that.
But what they're saying is that some of these fringe and these violent actions,
the perpetrators attributed their actions to their conspiratorial beliefs.
Okay, fine.
They're not really particularly specific here, but then they go down.
They talk about the Pizzagate and New World Order as being part of one
individual's reputation.
They're like, oh yeah, they're talking about the Pizzagate.
So it's like a kind of a secret repertoire of his intellectual repertoire.
Like he was about to use, going to commit a terrorist act.
They got him, he didn't, but there you go.
So continuing onward here, they talk about the outlook and they mentioned the
2020 presidential election.
And what they're saying here is that they're expecting conspiracy theories to
incorporate this next major election. Surprise, surprise.
conspiratorial term now apparently that they will incorporate the 2020
presidential election into their conspiracy theory there's a surprise and then i
want to focus on this this particular area right here so they say another factor
driving the intensity of conspiracy theorizing in the united states and the
subsequent threat from conspiracy-minded extremists now listen carefully to this
is the uncovering of real conspiracies or cover-ups involving illegal harmful or
unconstitutional activities by government officials or leading political figures
just wow so what they're saying right here is yes a lot of these conspiracy
theories are driven by actual conspiracies and cover-ups that have actually
happened so that's a little bit of a head spinner to me and i think for many
people reading this you're thinking wait what so on one hand they're saying that
these conspiracy theories uh are dangerous on the other hand right in here
embedded in this report is an acknowledgement that these theories are at least
uh often driven by genuine conspiracies and cover-ups so okay thanks for that
they don't really uh go into any detail whatsoever as to what some of those
genuine conspiracies are but i will um in a short while so buckle up and we'll
get into all of that continuing on with this document though i just want to get
into some of the real interesting meat here in it um so i'll just highlight some
of these in the context of domestic terrorism extremists often view the
activities of alleged conspirators as an existential threat that can only be
stopped through drastic or intrusive and highly unscrupulous action of the
clandestine or even violent means now again i just want to point out that uh you
know they haven't really defined conspiracy theory yet uh they're about to but
they give a very like this is a very weak and i would say um inadequate
description of conspiracy theory but what they're really saying is that there
are certain conspiracy theories that appear to promote violence extremists are
they saying that or are they just saying that some violent extremists use
certain so-called conspiracies to justify their actions uh that they see as an
existential threat i mean are they they're not they're not really making a very
clear distinction here as to which conspiracy theories so-called conspiracy
theories are promoting actual violence they give a definition here a conspiracy
theory is an attempt to explain events or circumstances as the result of a group
of actors working in secret to benefit themselves at the expense of others
that's a pretty good definition actually and i've heard worse um you know i
started uh writing about conspiracies i guess you could say 25 years ago when i
began writing about ufos that's my thing uh some of you who subscribe to my
youtube channel know that i've been writing i've written quite a bit about ufo
some of you who are coming across this video for the first time probably don't
so the fact is that for 25 years i have researched very deeply the ufo
phenomenon and with an emphasis on its political overtones the political cover-
up and so forth as i've described it i have believed for a very long time that
the cover-up on the ufo subject is real and uh and goes very deep and is very
significant and has caused a great deal of illegality and harm to our society
that's been my judgment you may disagree with that but that's been my assessment
for a long time and i've given a lot of thought to this i've done as much
research as as i can do on this so um so having looked at that i think that
their definition of conspiracy theory isn't a bad one i would only add that
conspiratorial activity is actually a fundamental element of organizational
behavior particularly the higher up you go when organizations are in competition
with each other for power wealth and so forth they will act in secret they will
act in you know with um allies that they can get secretly to to get what they
want to get this is what's happened the world over since the beginning of of
human history so nothing unusual about that uh another couple of highlights some
conspiracy theories point to weak circumstantial evidence but ignore stronger
evidence that would refute their claims this is a really vague and meaningless
statement.
That's like saying, you know, because everyone is, everyone is imperfect.
So everyone makes mistakes.
So certain ideas about how the world operates are correct.
Other ideas are incorrect. Big deal.
And it goes on, it says, consequently, they are usually at odds with official or
prevailing explanations of events. That's interesting.
So does that mean, I mean, the assumption here, it doesn't really take a lot to
see.
The assumption is that official and prevailing explanations of events are the
correct one. And you hear this more and more.
It's becoming more and more out in the open that there are authoritative news
sources.
You hear that word authoritative quite frequently when YouTube and Facebook are
talking about providing you with authoritative news.
You know, Facebook, which, works hand in hand now with the Atlantic Council.
And if you don't know much about the Atlantic Council, they're worth a web
search. This is a NATO-based organization that is described in any sense.
You look at it as neoconservative, hardcore neocons.
They are the go-to news source that is guiding Facebook's news strategy.
And by the way, Facebook, as you probably have heard, is now in the process or
trying, to pay news companies for the right to put their headlines on Facebook
news feed.
And they'll probably get away with it because the news organizations are all
going broke and Facebook is going to get away with it.
So they're actually becoming the true source of so-called authoritative news.
I don't consider that a particularly good thing, but there you go.
So anyway, the fundamental assumption in this statement here is that the
official and prevailing And they differentiate conspiracy theories from real
conspiracies, which the author here says involving illegal, anti-democratic, and
harmful activities by high-level government officials and political elites have
been exposed in the past.
And it has been argued that such plots have encouraged conspiracism in society.
And yes, I think that's actually a very defensible statement.
And that's actually quite true.
I have myself argued for a long time, that it is the criminal nature of much of
our governing society and what we would call our elites that has caused a huge
amount of distrust to develop among not just the people, but among scholars and
researchers who delve into these types of matters.
And they're naturally going to develop a distrust.
So again, it's really what there's no discussion of in any of this, of course,
and it's really not their intention, but there's no discussion of whether or not
there's a distinction between valid conspiracy analysis, let us say, and whack-
job violent conspiracy theories. They don't really get into that.
So I'm going to continue a few more points here.
One of the things that comes through in this document is the newest important
kind of new development that they want to go after, which is a new conspiracy
theory, excuse me, is anti-democracy. Anti-government conspiracy theories.
So there are other types of conspiracy theories that they discuss, but the anti-
government ones are the ones that they are most concerned with nowadays, or that
has really gotten their attention. And they just list three here.
I've underlined them. So you've got the New World Order conspiracy theory.
I've got quite a bit to say on that.
And oh golly, I was going to show you a screenshot of that, and I never
incorporate that in here, but I will talk about it.
So they describe the New World Order as a group of international elites,
controls, governments, industry, and media organizations instigating major wars,
carrying out secret stage events, and manipulating economies with the goal of
establishing global rule. And they call this a dangerous conspiracy theory.
I just want to point out, I was going to share this screen, but I actually
neglected to insert this into these slides. I have an old book on my shelf.
I've had it for years. Don't know how I got it. From 1976.
Let me stop sharing the screen for a second. How do I do this?
I'm on the new, there we go.
I have a book from 1976 by an author named Gary Allen.
Again, I don't know how I got this book. It's old. Called The Rockefeller File.
So it's an early conspiracy book, long before the internet.
And I read it many years ago.
And what's interesting in this book is in 1976, so it's a very interesting
analysis of the Rockefeller dynasty, and really getting into, you know, their
financial control over the world, the foundation system, and all of that.
But on page 61, and I remember this very well, and I'll try to get a screenshot
up here at some point in the future. I can't do it on this broadcast.
But on page 61 of this little paperback book, Gary Allen, I don't know how he
got this information.
He's talking about how the Rockefeller brothers, the four big ones, David,
Winthrop, Nelson, and Lawrence, had a phrase that they used among themselves to
describe the nature of the world they were trying to create for their own
benefit. And the phrase was New World Order.
Now, he wrote this book in 1975, published in 1976.
And if you, he has basically spends like one or two pages discussing their take
on the New World Order.
And he says, this is not going to be some fun little picnic.
This is, this is their, their vision for controlling the whole rest of the
world. So, okay, so he writes this in the mid 70s.
15 years, 14 years later, President George Herbert Walker Bush and his national
security advisor, Brent Scowcroft, within the space of a week or two, I think,
maybe within a month, both insert that phrase in 1990 into their respective
speeches. A New World Order. They did this in a very positive way.
And of course, well, nowadays, New World Order is not a positive phrase.
But President Bush at that time, absolutely did incorporate it and, and tried to
talk about this New World Order in a very positive way.
Now, George Herbert Walker Bush for his entire life, was always in tight with
the Rockefellers and has really always, always worked for them in one form or
another. So I don't think that's a coincidence.
Maybe it's a coincidence, but I seriously doubt it.
And I really wonder, is my, description of that for you just now, is that a
conspiracy theory? Or is that simply true?
So again, the whole idea of New World Order being a conspiracy theory?
No, in fact, there's genuinely strong research to support the fact that this
idea of a New World Order is and has been for a very long time promoted by our
greatest financial elites, the Rockefellers themselves. So, yeah, interesting.
They mentioned the UN and all the UN conspiracies.
I think that probably these days, the UN has really taken a backseat to a lot of
other conspiracy theories. In my view, I don't see it as being that critical.
Maybe some people out there take it seriously. I don't really think so.
And then they get into false flags, right down here at the bottom. Wow.
So here we go, false flags.
Now, this is something I've spent a lot of time researching, and they describe,
this in the following manner.
The official story surrounding a given terrorist attack or mass shooting is a
lie.
The event was staged or conducted by the government to justify encroachments on
civil liberties. Yeah, that's kind of accurate.
That's a pretty straightforward description.
But what they're doing here is implicitly saying that, you know, just by the way
that they're framing it in this, in this bulletin, that these are dangerous
conspiracy theories and presumably false.
And they no idea what they're talking about.
They don't say within this that they're false.
And in fact, the report is really duplicitous in a lot of ways, because, you
know, in several places, it states that conspiracy theories are, in part, driven
by actual genuine government conspiracies.
Now, as someone who's looked into false flags in a great amount of detail, I can
tell you, false flags are something that is part of our world in a very, very
integral way.
And there's reasons, there are specific reasons why false flags, in fact, are
part of our world.
And I've talked about this many times, but in short, I would simply suggest to
you that in an era where we are still living in ostensibly democratic societies
with ostensibly democratic institutions, which in fact, are not democratic, but
more oligarchic than anything else.
But that must keep the veneer of a democratic appearance, you know, out there
for people, but yet, that doesn't change the fact that governments and powerful
organizations still need to do things to get their way.
And they need to, they can't just, you know, openly invade other countries all
the time.
So they have to create pretext, or they have to create, you know, all kinds of
excuses, or not excuses, but justifications for what they do.
And there's a very long, provable history of false flags.
Some of them I'll discuss in a short while.
And there's a lot of false flags that we can't prove with 100%, but certainly
look and act like other types of false flags that we know happen.
So let me continue here. Let's see, what else are they saying? Political fringe.
Oh, yeah.
So they talk about two specific fringe political conspiracy theories at
Pizzagate and QAnon.
And basically set these both up as straw men in the way that I look at this.
But one thing that they actually have is very interesting.
They both mentioned child sex trafficking in both of them as dangerous
conspiracy theories.
And I just think that's really great timing, guys, in the aftermath of the
arrest and suicide of Jeffrey Epstein. Like, wow.
If there's any time that you want to believe in that type of conspiracy theory,
this is probably the time to believe in it.
But according to the FBI, these types of things are dangerous conspiracy
theories. So this is from, I think, the Yahoo News article.
And they just say here, the new focus on conspiracy theorists appears to fall
under the broader category of anti-government extremism.
I was just talking about this. And then a quote here.
This is the first FBI product examining the threat from conspiracy-driven
domestic extremists and provides a baseline for future intelligence products.
So, okay. Let me just stop sharing.
Let me stop sharing the screen there for a moment, and I'll come back to a few
other things here.
Now, one thing that I really feel this is important to say for proper balance is
that the FBI states several times in their press release that they're not going
after people just on the basis of their opinions. They say this a few times.
In fact, let me just show you these couple of quotes here.
So, there's two of them here.
In its statement, the FBI also said it can quote, never initiate an
investigation based solely on First Amendment protected activity.
That's an interesting way that they put it, actually.
However, First Amendment protected activity is defined, but let's continue.
As with all of our investigations, they go on, the FBI can never monitor a
website or a social media platform without probable cause.
Well, I would just reply So reply that in the post-USA Patriot Act era since
2001, that gives them quite a lot of leeway to have their way with monitoring
websites.
Another statement later in the article, the Yahoo article, I'll just read this
here.
Though the FBI document focuses on ideological motivations, FBI Director Wray in
his testimony last week asserted that the FBI is concerned only with violence,
not people's beliefs.
The FBI doesn't, quote, investigate ideology no matter how repugnant, end quote,
he told lawmakers. We investigate violence and any extremist ideology.
When it turns to violence, we are all over it.
In the first three quarters of this year, we've had more domestic terrorism
arrests than the prior year, and it's about the same number of arrests as we
have on the international terrorism side.
So yeah, I mean, that's interesting that they say what they're saying here.
Again, no one is denying that there are dangerous extremists in the United
States and around the world.
And by the way, they're of all political persuasions, so you get them on the
right, you get them on the left. And it is a danger, and it's a real problem.
One thing that I would ask you to consider, however, is how closely related
extremist ideologies are to conspiracy theories.
And I think this is a really weak link in the end. Thank you.
Thank you for that in the analysis.
And in fact, I would say it's a nearly non-existent link.
There are in history and currently you've had Nazis, you've had fascists, you've
had communists.
These are ideologically driven extremists who have and do commit violent acts,
and we know this.
But I would ask you to ask the question, are those extremist ideologies the
product of conspiracy theories?
I think the answer to that is really fundamentally no.
I think that they're totally separate.
Certainly in the case of Nazi and fascist ideologies, they're not driven
primarily by conspiracies.
They may incorporate their own ideas of conspiracies in, but those are, in my
view, absolutely secondary to other types of motivations.
The same, I would say, is true of communist ideologies.
They have their own dangerous extremisms, all of them.
And it is, I think, no one's arguing that we shouldn't be monitoring against
those and challenging them and regulating them to the extent that we decide as a
society to do so.
But again, to conflate those with so-called conspiracy theories is a real
stretch, and there hasn't been any kind of genuine evidence provided in this FBI
bulletin.
Or frankly anywhere else that I have seen that justifies this type of report.
So I'm going to continue to share a screen with you again.
And this, I think, is the last thing that I'm quoting from the article, and then
I've got a few other things I'm going to share with you.
The Homeland Security official agrees that conspiracy theories, and this is how
they end the article, may in fact inspire violence and be a threat, but
questions what the government is going to do about it.
He notes that the Department of Homeland Security, quote, nearly all, if not
all, the intelligence analysts focusing on domestic extremist groups were
eliminated under the Trump administration.
There is no one there doing this, he says.
So really the article ends on the note of emphasizing the importance, it seems
to me, of putting more money and more resources into combating extremist
conspiracy theorists. So it's a real kind of support. I'm going to stop there.
Thank
[0:32:45] UNKNOWN:
you.
[0:32:45] Richard Dolan:
For what the FBI is trying to do here, and there you go.
So if we were to go by the, you know, what the FBI is suggesting here, and
really this is a tacit recommendation, let's make no mistake about it.
I wonder what would have happened in, say, 1960 if some researcher analysts had
been able to say, you know, I believe the United States government is conducting
covert, you know, mind control research on unwitting subjects and screwing with
their heads for the rest of all time in the quest for creating the perfect,
what, Manchurian candidate or the perfect, you know, mind control victim.
And that individual in 1960, under this type of FBI, you know, recommendation,
would be I don't know. But he has a lot of
[0:33:53] UNKNOWN:
experience on the subject
[0:33:54] Richard Dolan:
of the domestic terrorist threat seems to me.
That's an anti-government conspiracy theory, MKUltra, which happened to be true.
Or what would someone have said in, say, 1950?
If they had said, you know, there's a lot of Nazis being brought in covertly
into the United States.
These are unrepentant Nazis and looks like the United States government somehow,
one way or another, is bringing these guys in covertly.
because we're not supposed to allow them into our country that's illegal which
in fact it was and that person could also be considered a dangerous anti-
government extremist and that would be operation paperclip and that would not be
a conspiracy theory that would be conspiracy fact or what if someone 1950 1960
1970 had said looks to me in my research that the CIA has actually had us hooks
into major major media for many many years and is in fact controlling the most
part of what mainstream what the media is reporting it's all being managed
ultimately by the CIA and again that's another anti-government conspiracy theory
that would be operation Mockingbird absolute total fact you know we can go on
and on there's a lot of these you could say if it's if the year is 1953 and
you're looking at the so-called you know free Iranian revolution that overthrew
the prime the elected prime minister of Mossadegh and if you had said that's
actually a CIA and British intelligence operation to bring in a bunch of Iranian
thugs and killers and murderers and put them in the streets and start riots one
right after another and also to instigate bombings and blame it on communists
all in an effort to overthrow this regime so that the US and the Brits can get
the Iranian oil again that person would also be considered a dangerous extremist
anti-government according to how the FBI is formulating this and that would be
operation Ajax that's also true or here's a good one how about if it's 1962 and
you tell the world hey you know some crazy guy at the Joint Chiefs of Staff is
trying to get President Kennedy to sign off on having American commercial
airliners crash into American buildings and blame it on Cubans allowing us to
start a war with Cuba you'd be considered a very dangerous anti-government
extremist and yet you would be telling the truth because that would be
describing describing operation north woods which thankfully did not happen John
F Kennedy had the common good sense to say no we're not gonna do that get out of
my office and on and on and on bombings in Europe done by operation gladio a
NATO C I operation through the 50s and 60s and 70s and 80s
[0:36:51] UNKNOWN:
and
[0:36:51] Richard Dolan:
and probably beyond.
And Gladio is only the name of the Italian element of that operation.
This is something that went on throughout Europe under different names in
different countries.
This is CIA orchestrated bombings and murder and terrorism of European cities
and people killing them and blaming it typically on communists in order to scare
the people.
That's Operation Gladio and that is a proven historical fact and we know about
it. There's people in prison as a result of it.
Or the fact that the CIA assassinated people, God forbid.
Well, that came out in the church committee back in the 1970s.
Or COINTELPRO, the fact that the FBI could go into your house and what are
called black bag jobs and plant evidence against you.
Or if you're Martin Luther King and you were to say, yeah, the FBI is actually
behind trying to get me to kill myself or trying to do other things to
destabilize my public career.
That would be considered crazy talk and dangerous anti-government extremism
because you're sowing a lack of faith in your public institution, the FBI.
But guess what? That was true.
The Gulf of Tonkin, the covert syphilis injections that went on through the
Tuskegee Institute against African-Americans and also against Guatemalans
killing many, many people, injecting them with syphilis to see if you could have
different ways of treating it. Lots of people died in those.
And if you were to say this back in the 1940s and 50s and 60s, you would also be
considered a dangerous conspiracy theorist as how the FBI is putting this today.
And you'd be deplatformed and who knows what else. We can go on and on and on.
And one of the ones that I wanna show you and I wanna share the screen, of
course, oh, there's the 2002, 2003 domestic, excuse me, Iraqi weapons of mass
destruction and all of those lies.
And if you, now back in those days in 2002, citizens were actually very
skeptical of that claim. I was one of them and there were lots of others.
And we were not then being labeled as potential domestic extremists and
terrorists the way I think it's very possible that the FBI might just be
inclined to do if it were today. So let me share this one screen with you here.
This, of course, is from about five years ago when Edward Snowden came out with
the massive amount of revelations that happened in 2014.
And this is one of them.
I mean, probably the most sensational was all the domestic espionage that was
going on so massively NSA spying.
In fact, James Clapper, who was then NSA director, lied to Congress shortly
before all of these leaks came out and stated, oh no, we don't do anything like
that. Well, yes you do, and you lied to Congress.
But this is one of the Snowden leaks dealing with GCHQ. That's Britain's NSA.
And it deals with the dirty tricks that GCHQ has been involved with, including
false flags.
In this case, false flags against people, but false flags, so in this case,
they're recommending against enemies of the state.
Essentially, one thing you can do is write a blog purporting to be one of their
victims, and then do other kinds of really nasty harassment, email, text their
colleagues, neighbors, and so forth, set up a honey trap.
Yeah, this is what in the old days we'd expect from the Soviet Union back in the
60s and 70s, but it's a tried and true method, so GCHQ's involved in that, but
yeah, false flags.
So when we are getting this document from the FBI, this bulletin, and a lot of
these talking heads out there, so if you do a YouTube search or even a Google
search on this story, FBI, domestic terrorism, extremism, conspiracy theories,
and all of that, you'll find a number of sites that are very critical of that,
and you'll find a number of sites that are actually very supportive of that, and
I haven't really done a breakdown yet, but it's maybe 50-50, as far as I can
tell.
And they are basically, the ones that support this, you can really see a
pattern.
It's the ones that have more money, that are clearly more mainstreamy in their
presentation and so forth.
They're the ones that really are supporting this, and then the ones that are
attacking it are usually like lone guys in their house, like me, who are giving
you their analysis in that manner, and they're the ones who are opposed to it.
But the ones who are supporting it, I think they're kind of missing the point
here, and I want to say this as respectfully as I can, because look, I don't
want to just be preaching to the choir here.
There's a lot of people who have different opinions on this, but the biggest
problem I think that they fall under is, as I mentioned before, they conflate
extremist ideology with conspiracy theory.
And I think this is a really big mistake, so that extremist ideologies, or let
us say violent ideologies, that's probably a better way to put it, are not
intrinsically related to conspiracies.
They may incorporate certain types of conspiracies that they may believe in, all
right, but it's a very different thing than saying that they're intimately
connected to conspiracy theories.
And I'd also point out, and again, I don't have a screen share on this to share
with you.
I probably should have put it in, but the very phrase conspiracy theory, as far
as I can tell, owes its origin to the CIA itself in a document from 1967.
I have talked about this elsewhere.
I have a video on my YouTube channel that actually talks about this explicitly,
how in 1967, the CIA was basically doing a research paper on how to deal with
the government, the growing talk in society that the Kennedy assassination was
some form of conspiracy, not just Lee Harvey Oswald acting by himself.
And this was a problem for this CIA analyst who wrote basically a series of
policy recommendations on how to deal with this growing problem.
We can't have that.
We can't have people believe that there was a conspiracy to kill the president,
despite the fact that 80% of Americans to this day believe that there was a
conspiracy to kill JFK, and not for frivolous reasons do people believe this.
There's been a lot of very excellent research done on this, obviously.
The point is, the phrase conspiracy theorist appears, as far as I can tell, to
have been coined in that CIA document.
And it was coined in such a way, they didn't use the word conspiracy theory, but
they talk about conspiracy theorists as a way to smear those individuals who are
putting forward alternative narratives to the assassination of JFK.
So I think it's fair to say that they coined the phrase conspiracy theory.
If that phrase has been used prior to 1967, I would love for one of you to write
it in the comments below, because I think we'd all like to see.
I have not seen any definitive statement or any research that shows that this is
the case. It's possible.
I'm not going to deny that it's possible, but I don't think it's the case.
And I certainly think it's undeniable that the phrase conspiracy theory only
picked up steam culturally and in society. After 1967.
So I think it's a pretty clear-cut case here, where you've got CIA analysts
using that phrase and then talking about using their media colleagues and media
assets to put this type of narrative out to basically to kneecap those theorists
who had alternate ideas on the Kennedy assassination.
So the idea of conspiracy theory itself appears to be a CIA creation as a way to
disable alternative narratives to the mainstream.
And you know, the ugly irony here, I'm sure it's not lost on many of you, is
that by pointing this out in public, you are liable to be labeled, wait for it,
a conspiracy theorist. How ridiculous is that?
The other thing that's actually a little bit, I think that would be galling to
most people who really think about this is, you know, a lot of analysts,
including a lot of mainstream analysts.
And including a lot of current and former mainstream media executives have
acknowledged the mainstream media's role in exacerbating cultural tensions in
Western nations in general.
Like they've talked about this really quite openly, frequently saying, you know,
how the way that they cover news and how they use clickbait and all of these
things to kind of get people ramped up and angrier and angrier at each other.
You know.
And they're not responding to extremist types of ideologies like mainstream
media is a huge part of the sickness that we're dealing with.
And yet what we're seeing is the establishment media and the establishment power
structure is trying to steer people more and more toward that mainstream media
as a way to combat so-called extremism.
Like that's a really awful form of irony here, you know. Or is it irony?
Or is it a design? Like there's another conspiracy theory, God forbid.
So it's just something to keep in mind here.
Like they are a huge part of this problem, if not the prime driver of the
problem.
I think you could make a really good argument that mainstream media is a
significant, maybe the most significant cause of the continual ramping up of all
of these extremist ideologies that we see on the left and on the right.
You know.
You can argue that there are other things going on too, but I think certainly
the media has a very, very large part to play in all of this.
And here we have an FBI document essentially tacitly recommending more control
for the mainstream media to combat these extremist conspiracy theories, which
are not conspiracy theories.
They're just research, which could be correct or incorrect, that lead to certain
behaviors. Now, you know, in olden times, pre-911, pre-Patriot Act, you know.
Those long, long ago days that are long gone.
We had solutions to problems like this.
And the solution was you allow people to have free inquiry, freedom of speech,
and you regulate their violent behavior, like really simple.
So you allow people to have free exchange of ideas, no matter how much you may
disagree with a certain idea.
But when they engage in something that's violent, you say, no, we don't allow
that. We're going to. We're going to, you know, incarcerate you or do whatever.
So that was the old fashioned solution.
And now what we're seeing more and more is they're just taking more and more
slices out of the pie, moving away from behavior into thought itself and the
regulation of thought itself.
And this is, you know, this particular FBI intelligence bulletin is simply the
latest in a long string of these things.
And it's probably not even the biggest news story of its kind all year.
There's a lot of this stuff going on.
This is a significant development, without a doubt.
And I want to also, again, I've already mentioned how I think it's disingenuous
and also probably mostly wrong to tie extremist ideology to conspiracy theories.
I think that's a very weak link and frequently a non-existent link.
But I would also point out the very duplicitous nature of this FBI analysis and
where they say, we're not going after your ideas.
We're only going after your ideas. We're only going after your violent actions.
And I would just say, not exactly. Not exactly, FBI.
What they're, you know, the whole point of this intelligence bulletin is to warn
society and warn the government, presumably, against the dangers of certain
types of conspiracy theory in society that need to be, as they suggested in the
beginning of that bulletin, you know,
[0:49:53] UNKNOWN:
more sociopathic.
[0:49:54] Richard Dolan:
You know?
You know, more social media and website management and essentially censorship,
they don't use that word, but that's really what they're saying, over your
thought processes.
And I would like to ask the FBI and I would like to ask you, how is
investigating false flags connected to terrorism or violence?
How is it connected, all right?
Because the answer is, it is not connected to violence and it is not connected
to terrorism in any way. There may be. There may be. But it is.
There is a science to
[0:50:28] UNKNOWN:
this. So, you know, I think
[0:50:29] Richard Dolan:
it's a great question. I think it's a
[0:50:31] UNKNOWN:
lovely question, I'm not the
[0:50:32] Richard Dolan:
only one there who's, you know, a culture who's predisposed to violence.
And I just got a little message from Tracy. Hey, there's my wife. Hey, Tracy.
All right. I just want to get back on my train of thought here.
So, you know, false flags, investigating false flags is not, in and of itself, a
violent activity, not in any way, shape, or form, is it?
And you show me how it is.
There are people who have violent tendencies who might believe in false flags,
but you show me the cause and effect.
you can't because there isn't one so um it's a really weak guy a very very weak
connection at best and the fact is every human being on this planet behaves in
accordance with ideas that they have right so we have we form ideas and
sometimes we act on those ideas and sometimes we do not but to um to implicate
an entire area of research in this case false flags as you know worthy of fbi
investigation as dangerous conspiracy theories that's a seriously dangerous
thing particularly when the fbi in its very bulletin acknowledges that there
have been crimes and conspiracies done by governments in the past and in
relating to false flags i i would just point out that uh the cia and the united
states military both have created uh memorandums and actual guidelines and
playbooks in which they explicitly talk about different forms of propaganda
white gray and black propaganda and the way that they describe black propaganda
uh is essentially as false flags in other words you create uh an action you
blame it on some other party that that's a false flag right uh and they don't
rule out you know engaging in violent activities by the way and blaming it on
other parties this is a long-standing uh tactic of the united states and
certainly of other governments that are able to get away with it other
governments have a harder time getting away with this stuff because they don't
control global media the way that the united states government really does so
the us has way way more leeway in this type of activity than any other
government including the russian government not that the russians can't do it
they can but there is no one who is going to dethrone the united states in the
realm of false flags for a long time to come that's been the us has been the
king of false flags for a very very long time so analyzing false flags now is
seen by the fbi as a potentially dangerous terroristic activity and that that
should frighten anyone in my view uh how is investigating the new world order uh
tied to terrorism or violence or or a let me put it differently is investigating
the so-called new world order a cause in any way of terrorism or of violence all
right how is researching the fundamental nature of your world as an adult would
do not as not as a child but as an adult would do how is that a cause of
terrorism in any way i guess you know when you really get right down to it there
is a danger in researching some of these things uh much as there's a danger in a
totalitarian society of researching certain things that are true that that
government doesn't want you to investigate so it's it's it could be
destabilizing for that totalitarian society sure right and similarly what we're
seeing here is that there are certain things in our society in western society
which are not allowed to be discussed any longer and by researching them and by
digging into the truth of them where you're bumping up against the government
that's that's definitely not uh not happy with that and calling that dangerous
and and possibly potentially terroristically related and i think this is a very
very extremely dangerous thing to to do um i'm gonna be close to wrapping this
up here uh you know we i was gonna say require but let me just be more careful
um let me in in this one that peter did um and and then i'm gonna let you go off
on this one says you require way of speech what's lotta in discussion with that
really well one thing everyone thinks about uh is the freedom of speech and
right they i mean the freedom of speech hasn't been proven by anyone by yourself
i mean it hasn't been proven by anyone else but there are three big 보통 monarch
who the great religions because the piano in which i draw the link of freedom of
speech this iranian religion which is said to be more west than the second world
and I benefit from you by hearing your ideas and by you critiquing my ideas and
vice versa and when we can't do that when we're not allowed to do that then
that's when societies are much more likely to devolve into violence because
conflict never goes away within a society all right so that you have two ways of
resolving conflict you can either talk it out or you can fight it out and I
think we all realize it's much much better to talk it out and so you can only do
that from full freedom of speech and full freedom of inquiry you've got to be
able to do that it doesn't mean that everyone's gonna be right all the time when
they investigate the latest event that they think is a false flag people are
wrong about that people are wrong about all kinds of analyses that they have
I've been wrong many times as well and a lot of the things that I thought were
true and then I had to look at and I thought well maybe it's not true that's
what happens when you're investigating things that are that are difficult that
are hidden that you want to get to the bottom of sometimes you get wrong turns
that's the price you pay for freedom of inquiry it's not a crime to be wrong we
we need to be allowed to engage in a full freedom of inquiry within this society
so that we can make this society better and be corrected when we need to be
corrected but you know what's happening here is that ideas themselves are
getting ever ever closer to themselves being criminalized now this FBI bulletin
is not it doesn't have the force of law it's simply a bulletin that they've
published and it has its own suggestions and maybe those suggestions will be
taken up by the FBI and other branches of government or maybe not probably yes
at some point I imagine they will be what I think we're going to see is not that
you will be criminalized for believing such and such a thing but that you will
see the effects in continued social media and platform de-platforming, soft
censorship, platform banning, and the like.
I think that's really going to be the main outcome of this bulletin.
So the ideas themselves are not yet criminalized, but again, we're moving
further and further down that road. These things can't happen overnight.
So what they need to do is create cultural change, and they're doing it.
I mean, this really started, frankly, with the USA Patriot Act of 2001, so
that's 18 years ago.
A full generation has passed since that occurred, and it started with the
Patriot Act, really, I think we could say, and it's continued with a variety of
laws through the George W.
Bush, through the Barack Obama years, and through the Donald Trump years.
It has continued to marginalize ideas that are beyond the mainstream, and we've
seen it.
Whether it's a part of explicit presidential policy or not, it's been happening.
So what we're seeing, again, just a final statement on this, is the FBI bulletin
really is a not-so-veiled suggestion of greater web censorship, and I think you
should expect more shadow banning, more de-platforming, and the like.
As I said earlier, it's another slice out of the pie.
I think what really happened was the Internet, the late 1980s through the 90s,
was something of an unforeseen development, and I mean unforeseen in the sense
of all of its massive social repercussions. I don't think this was predictable.
I don't think this was foreseeable.
I think that what happened is that this digitization of information, the ability
to copy and paste around the world, the ability then eventually to broadcast
around the world, and all of this, created a global cultural revolution.
It really has happened so that we're able to share information in ways that were
not imaginable for prior generations, and that was an unbelievable outgrowth of
freedom. I mean, really, just an incredible thing.
And so what happened is that those old controllers of narratives, the
establishment media, which existed really unchallenged for generations, found
itself challenged, found itself on the back foot, as it were, and it's taken a
little bit of time for them to regroup and to figure out, how do we get this
under control? And they're getting it under control.
So we're seeing the elites, you know, ask yourself when we talk about new world
order, if the new world order really doesn't exist, can anyone please explain
what is the purpose of the Bilderberg meetings every single year?
Like, what are those all about? They meet once a year in five star hotels.
They are the true masters of our universe. They've been meeting since 1954.
[1:00:32] UNKNOWN:
We, we, we,
[1:00:34] Richard Dolan:
we know actually now what they generally talk about.
We've got minutes of the meetings.
They've been leaked out and you've got the most powerful individuals in the
world, politically, financially, the movers and the shakers.
They get together once a year and they discuss informally without being elected.
Of course, they just discuss the things that they want to do and to get done in
this world.
And then they go back to the various loci of power and they do their best to
make it happen. And they're usually really good at making it.
So, you know, if, if it's dangerous to investigate that, which it now, according
to the FBI is akin, almost akin to moving toward terrorism, we've really got
some problems here.
You know, no one is saying, and I am certainly not saying that we should just
simply allow violent ideologies to go unchallenged. I would never say that.
And I don't believe that. All right.
But investigation into important events of our world and questioning of
authority and the actions of that authority, that's something else.
And that is something that is critical for us to continue doing because we're
moving so fast into a new era, technologically, socially, politically,
economically, in every way that I can imagine, we are transforming ourselves.
And this is a critical moment in our history for people who care to be doing
exactly this, to be looking carefully at the structures of power as they exist
and to make sure that we're not getting hosed yet again by the way things are
going to be turning out over the next 10, 20, 30, 40 years.
So this whole thing is not over. And from both sides, it's not over.
So it's not over from the centralized power structure.
I think we need to expect more actions like this, more policy statements coming
out, like this and slice by slice by slice.
I think we can expect these attempts to continue. They're not always successful.
And the reason those attempts are not always successful is that you can also
expect increasingly more adaptation from the people and from independent
researchers as well to get around these restrictions.
So in other words, you know, the more difficult it may be for people to
broadcast on YouTube, we can expect other platforms to do it.
We can expect other platforms to arise like BitChute, which is definitely
arising. And I don't yet have a BitChute channel.
But hey, you know, that day will probably come.
And, you know, content creators are going to BitChute.
They're not, I don't think they're able to monetize anything there.
But that's really secondary.
The main thing is they're able to go there to have a voice.
So there's, as old avenues close off, hopefully, open up because that's what
people will do.
And then those new avenues may themselves get closed off and we have to continue
to adapt. That's the world that we're in. So it's not the end of the world.
It's a problem.
But I really believe this is a problem that we as free, still free, and free
thinking people can deal with. And, but we have got to be vigilant about this.
So I hope that this analysis was useful for you.
I tried very hard not to go off in one direction or another and do too much
pontificating here.
I wanted to be factual, although clearly my opinions have made themselves known
to you. And, you know, you don't have to take my opinion.
The information that I'm providing hopefully is the most important thing here.
But I would again challenge everyone here to question the link, this alleged
link between these conspiracy theories and extremist ideologies.
In my assessment, I don't see a whole lot, if any evidence, linking the two.
So I think really what we're talking about is a straw man argument largely in
relating to these so-called conspiracy theories, which by the way are so ill-
defined as to be basically meaningless anyway.
You know, to talk about an elite that acts illegally on its own for its own
benefit as a conspiracy theory, yeah, that's exactly how the world works.
So unless the FBI analyst is attempting to refute that, then what they're really
saying is that when you conduct an analysis of the structure of power in this
world, you're going to be engaging in conspiracy theories because I can tell
you, man, it's an inevitability that you run into the fact that a very small
number of people control this much wealth and power. That's our world.
It is an unavoidable outcome of doing an analysis of that sort.
You're going to come into that. So that's
[1:05:42] UNKNOWN:
a conspiracy theory. I don't think it's a
[1:05:43] Richard Dolan:
conspiracy theory I don't think it's a conspiracy
[1:05:45] UNKNOWN:
theory, I
[1:05:45] Richard Dolan:
suppose. And the FBI explicitly made that a big no-no, a potential no-no.
And again, my view is they're basically telling social media platforms and
websites, yeah, it's cool for you to de-platform those people and to soft-ban
those people. So there you have it. Well, I hope you enjoyed this.
I'll be back next week.
I'm pretty sure I'll have my wonderful wife, Tracy, back with me.
And in the meantime, I'll

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:06:16] UNKNOWN:
see you next time.
[1:06:16] Richard Dolan:
In the meantime, keep your chin up. Don't get depressed.
Remember, all of us have more strength inside us than we ever realize.
So this is not the end. Just keep on going. Have a good night, everyone.
Take care.

================================================================================
END OF TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================

SPEAKER STATISTICS:
----------------------------------------
  Richard Dolan:
    Words: 10,316 (99.6%)
    Turns: 14
  UNKNOWN:
    Words: 39 (0.4%)
    Turns: 13

----------------------------------------
Generated: 2026-01-16 21:43:24
Tier: PREMIUM
Freelance Transcription Service (FT Pipeline)