================================================================================
American Alchemy - Charles Hall Area51
Enhanced Transcript with Speaker Identification
================================================================================

METADATA:
----------------------------------------
  Duration:      2h 21m 45s
  Channel:       Jesse Michels
  Upload Date:   20250911
  Language:      EN
  Processed:     2026-01-08 12:51

TRANSCRIPT:
================================================================================
[0:00:00] Host/Interviewer:
You know, a lot of people I interview have had fleeting interactions in one-off
instances.
You know, they've been abducted by a gray or they've, you know, interacted with
a tall white or a Nordic.
You've had years of interactions with all three, but mostly with the tall
whites.
[0:00:19] Charles Hall:
There was this giant white radioactive horse that floated around the ranges at
night and was fluorescent.
The extraterrestrials, when they come, even if they're your good friends,
there's always a tension because they always come heavily armed.
[0:00:42] Host/Interviewer:
Today's amazing guest on American Alchemy has seen the inside of a UFO.
He's a firsthand witness to the collaboration between human beings and aliens
from another world. He's even made an alien laugh.
Charles Hall was in the Air Force. He was also stationed.
At the notorious Area 51.
While stationed there, he was in regular contact with an alien race that he
calls the tall whites for two years. This conversation is absolutely wild.
There's a guy at NASA who has a deep interest in these sorts of things,
experiencers. His name is Timothy Taylor. Have you heard of him by any chance?
[0:01:25] Unknown Guest:
Did you say Timothy Taylor?
[0:01:26] Host/Interviewer:
Yeah.
[0:01:27] Unknown Guest:
He's a good friend of ours.
[0:01:29] Host/Interviewer:
We're going to be talking about aliens going to the bathroom. What powers?
A UFO and theories of subatomic physics that overturned Einstein.
Before we get into it, I want to introduce our guest, Charles Hall.
Paul enlisted in the US Air Force in 1964 when he was just 19 years old.
He trained as a weather observer measuring wind speeds, cloud cover and
visibility from 1965 to 1967.
He was stationed at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada.
His job included long, isolated tours at the Indian Springs.
He was out in the desert doing routine weather observations when he started
noticing strange figures, tall, pale, glowing shapes, moving at a distance.
At first, he thought they were ghosts or maybe hallucinations brought on by
solitude. Other observers had similar experiences.
They called it the legend of Range 4 Harry, a ghostly radioactive horse roaming
the desert. One observer was even injured in an encounter with something.
Others flat out refused to return to the post, but Hall was very different.
Something about who he was meant that he wasn't going to break like the others
had, and both his commanders and these tall white beings seemed to take notice.
In this isolated crucible, he began slowly interacting with the tall whites.
These beings would stalk him and test him, appear suddenly and vanish, slowly
gauging his reactions. But he eventually learned this is not true.
He was the only one who knew the truth.
And although there were some painful setbacks, he gradually developed a trust.
He saw family groups, parents, children, elders.
He would even end up referring to one of them as something like a brother.
Hall claims that the tall whites lived in underground facilities at the north
end of Indian Springs Valley, complete with hangers for their craft — a story
bearing striking resemblance to that of Bob Lazar.
He learned about their different flying crafts.
And as you'll see in our conversation, what he saw comports with much of what
we've learned about UAPs since 2017.
But the Tall Whites were not the only alien race described in this story.
Hall has talked about the Greys, the small, frail, large-headed humanoids that
match the classic Roswell image.
[0:03:53] Charles Hall:
The Tall White technology was better than the technology of the Greys. And
[0:04:07] Host/Interviewer:
then there are the Nordics, what you'll hear Hall refer to as the Norwegians
with the 24 teeth.
Hall described them as more patient, more diplomatic, even benevolent compared
to the Tall Whites.
Some of them could pass among humans in the public, sometimes blending into
crowds.
There is no end to the speculation about how these aliens, alien species, who
Hall suggests have been here for thousands of years, might have interacted with
humanity's evolution or social development.
If all of this sounds crazy, well, yeah, I don't blame you.
And trust me, we've only scratched the surface here.
I personally don't even know what to make about this conversation.
There are things Charles Hall is about to say that feel beyond the pale to me.
So that's my primer for you.
Without further ado, please welcome this week's amazing American alchemist,
Charles Hall. Today's episode is sponsored by Incogni.
Before we dive into today's episode of American Alchemy, I want to give a quick
shout out to our amazing sponsor, Incogni.
This is a service that I use to make all of my personal information vanish from
the sketchiest corners of the internet.
Here's a fun, but slightly terrifying experiment.
Google your full name plus your city. What comes up?
Old addresses, family members, court records you didn't even know were public,
and maybe some bizarre risk profile that makes you sound like a Bond villain.
That's all thanks to data brokers, companies you've never heard of, quietly
buying, selling, and reselling your personal information to advertisers,
political campaigns, insurers, even scammers. Incogni fights them for you.
They contact over 250 data brokers.
They demand your data to be deleted and follow up until it's actually gone.
And now they've launched something called custom removals.
Part of their unlimited plan. Here's the upgrade.
If you find your information on any site, anywhere on the internet, even ones
outside of their automated system, you just paste the link into your dashboard
and Incogni's privacy team will personally get it taken down and you get
unlimited requests.
Think sites like whitepages.com, trellis.law, or unicort.com.
Places you'd never visit, but where your data somehow lives rent free.
I personally use it because I don't have the time to do it myself.
I don't have the time or quite frankly, the patience to chase down every obscure
website that's selling my address for $2 and 50 cents.
And with Incogni, I don't have to.
So take your personal data back with Incogni, use code American alchemy, or go
to incogni.com slash American alchemy to get 60% off an annual plan.
Again, that is 60% off an annual plan.
That's over half the normal price off online privacy. Isn't about paranoia.
It's about control.
And this is one of the easiest ways to get some of that control back.
So don't put it off. Take care of your internet hygiene.
Now let's get back into this crazy episode. I'm here with Charles Hall.
Um, it's an honor to have you. It's been a long time coming.
You're the subject of an amazing documentary by Emil Marzak called walking with
the tall whites.
Uh, but you've also written a series of amazing books called millennial
hospitality. You have six volumes, six volumes at this point. And.
Uh, you've interacted with, you know, a lot of people I interview have had
fleeting interactions in one-off instances.
You know, they've been abducted by a gray or they've, you know, interacted with,
uh, a tall white or a Nordic you've had years of interactions, uh, with all
three, but mostly with the tall whites.
And I really want to, uh, dive into that.
But first I want to talk about your hall photon theory.
Uh, you believe that Einstein is wrong and has.
Has limited physics, uh, stagnated it for the last century.
And so let's get into that.
[0:08:04] Charles Hall:
I'm quite certain Einstein was wrong though.
And I've also written books entitled beyond relativity, and I've done a rumble
video entitled mirage galaxies and edges in base edges as spelled with capital
letters, cuz it's a zone and I've also done a second, um, uh, film with Emil
Marzak, which discusses that, uh, called walking with the tall whites aftermath.
And I've also co that's all copyrighted hall photon theory.
I first copyrighted hall photon theory in 1997.
And I'm quite certain that there are many more particles, subatomic particles,
and many more types of force fields.
Uh, available, uh, which exists in the real world.
And that's why relativity is not correct cuz relativity doesn't take those into
account.
[0:09:08] Host/Interviewer:
And for context, for the audience, uh, you are extremely smart.
You have a master's degree in nuclear physics and you scored off the charts on,
uh, one of these math tests,
[0:09:19] Charles Hall:
uh, before
[0:09:20] Host/Interviewer:
joining the army. And
[0:09:22] Charles Hall:
so I was in the air force and what you say is correct.
I got one wrong out of 500. On the air force math ability test.
It was the one I was marking as I was marking the correct answer as the clock
had sounded and they were ripping the answer sheet from my cold hands.
If they'd just given me 10 more seconds, I'd have got them all.
[0:09:45] Host/Interviewer:
That's amazing.
But you, you told me off air that what inspired this hall photon theory was you
actually seeing a craft and realizing it could go faster than light.
So you, you were stationed at area 51.
[0:09:57] Charles Hall:
That's right. That's correct.
Well, I was a weather observer in the US air force and I was stationed at Nellis
air force base, uh, from March of 1965 until May of 1967.
And Nellis is in charge of the gunnery ranges at Indian Springs.
And I was a duty weather observer at Indian Springs area.
51 is just in the 60, 1965 was just the entry area.
And I was assigned to the areas and the areas went up to number 60 and I've been
in all of them. The areas were assembled into lands.
One led the most famous land was dreamland area.
51 was not actually dreamland itself. It was merely groom lake.
Dreamland was area 53 and 54, which was the Northern half of Indian Springs
Valley.
And then the Valley to the East dog bone valley, and part of the Valley to the
West, including French peak.
The biggest shock was not that extraterrestrials were here on earth and the had
been ever since, at least the ice age, the biggest shock that I felt was
discovering that Einstein was wrong about relativity, the craft that the tall
whites and the grays came in, the process.
while grays came in could easily exceed the speed of light by many times.
The tall white technology was better than the technology of the grays, but the
grays come from a planet that's closer than the planet the tall whites come
from, and the grays got here first.
So I would guess that 90% of the time that you see an actual extraterrestrial
craft, it's one of the gray craft, and about 10% of the time it's one of the
tall white craft. And the grays are much more numerous for that reason.
I remember the shock when I really, truly understood that Einstein was wrong
about relativity. I was out at range three, and as the duty weather observer...
[0:12:22] Unknown Guest:
What year is it? And
[0:12:23] Charles Hall:
this was in the mid-1960s. This was like in 1965, the late summer.
And there was a six-week or two-month period where I was certain that the tall
white individuals who identified themselves as the teacher and range four harry
and tour guide, who were my good friends, that they had taken a vacation or a
business trip somewhere.
And that they weren't on this planet, and that they had gone to some other
inhabited planet orbiting some other star.
A reasonable guess would have been the star Arcturus or a star near Arcturus.
Then they came back.
I believe they'd been on a business trip slash vacation type trip.
Now, Arcturus is 36 light years away, and the nearest star, Alpha Centauri, is
almost four light years away. It's a group of three stars.
And to go anywhere and come back to another star, the craft you were on had to
travel quite a few times faster than the speed of light, like 44 times or
something minimum, just to go there and come back in two months.
[0:13:43] Host/Interviewer:
I think a lot of people in the audience might hear that they're coming back and
forth from, you know, a star system that is 36 light years away.
And want to know some core details as to what you are seeing.
Do you see crafts coming in? And what did the
[0:13:58] Charles Hall:
crafts look like? On schedule.
On the night of the full moon, or a few days before or a few days after.
But their base at the north end of Indian Springs, they were using Dogbone Lake
as their landing field.
[0:14:16] Host/Interviewer:
What do the crafts look like?
[0:14:18] Charles Hall:
Like Tic Tacs. Like Tic Tacs. Yeah. Like eggs, like white eggs.
They were egg-shaped. Are
[0:14:26] Host/Interviewer:
they of the kind of, you know, David Fravor, 2004, the Nimitz sighting, where
you have a Tic Tac?
Or was it like the egg that Jake Barber or, you know, Socorro, New Mexico, 64,
you know, those are two
[0:14:40] Charles Hall:
different,
[0:14:40] Host/Interviewer:
or both shapes?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:14:42] Charles Hall:
When I first saw them, it reminded me the most of like a large version of a
passing, of the, engine of a passenger train, only with, with everything rounded
like an egg.
There are no sharp edges, no sharp protrusions, just smooth and round, like a
round, it was ellipsoidal. Okay.
[0:15:08] Host/Interviewer:
Any hieroglyphics or symbols?
[0:15:11] Charles Hall:
Not in the outside. When you went on, their writing is hieroglyphics, more so.
The, their writing, if you didn't know Egyptian hieroglyphics, some, a couple of
the guys that were with me who had seen them thought that they were ancient
Egyptians who had somehow or another gotten into the Indian Springs Valley and
trapped there, and were still using their own hieroglyphics.
[0:15:35] Host/Interviewer:
Who thought that?
[0:15:36] Charles Hall:
Oh, a couple of the other range men, yeah.
[0:15:39] Host/Interviewer:
Interesting.
[0:15:40] Charles Hall:
And they can stand right there in front of you. I speak from direct experience.
And if they feel like talking to each other using sounds too high for a human to
hear, they'll do so.
And if you didn't know better, you'd think they were able to do telepathy,
because they'll be sitting there in total silence and want to laugh, and then
they'll be going through a complete conversation.
And of course, their electronics also are able to tell what a person is
thinking, and to put thoughts in the conscious part of their mind, by electronic
means.
[0:16:18] Host/Interviewer:
Why do you think that?
[0:16:19] Charles Hall:
From direct experience. Okay.
[0:16:22] Host/Interviewer:
Did they have a device that could implant thoughts?
[0:16:25] Charles Hall:
Yeah, only it wasn't a big device that they had to carry in their hands.
It was one that they'd carry like on a helmet or whatever, you know?
[0:16:35] Host/Interviewer:
And what's the broader context here?
Are you sort of this rogue Air Force range men, or do the other range men and
superiors, are they aware of this ET presence coexisting alongside you guys at
this testing complex?
And is it sort of a—there's just this kind of awareness that there's this
cohabitation there?
[0:16:59] Charles Hall:
The Pentagon had a tiny handful of people that knew they were—that interacted
with them.
The range maintenance men, a few knew they were there, but most of them just
knew about the legend of range 4 Harry.
The range—the legend of range 4 Harry was that, was that there was this giant
white radioactive horse that floated around the ranges at night and was
fluorescent.
And supposedly it was a horse that had gotten too close to the bomb blasts at
Yucca Plats.
And you'd see him on warm summer nights from a distance and you could stay, but
you needed to stay away from him. And he was called Range 4 Harry.
Now there was an actual tall white guy with the name Range 4 Harry, and the tall
whites, when they were wearing their protective suits, could form up into a
high-speed horse formation.
Like if there were, a typical one is if there were two women, a couple, three
kids, children, and two men, and one would be in front and bend over and at the
waist and bend forward and put their arms out like that, some usually, and they
would be the front of the horse.
And then the three children would, who remember their suits, the technology of
them allowed them to float nine or 10 inches off the ground.
They could float a lot higher if they wanted to, but they had to balance
themselves.
And the children would float, whose suits were a slightly different design,
would float higher so that they were floating at about the waist level.
So you'd have the two women in front and the three children.
Then at the back, you'd have the two men who had bigger suits and more powerful
packs, and they would bend over, over the children.
So if you saw them when they were out in the desert, say a quarter mile away,
when they all turned on their suits, the force fields from around those suits
merged into one.
And I speak from direct experience, you would swear there was a giant white
floating horse coming at you from out in the desert.
Now, that horse could, when they were in that formation, the reason I call it
the high-speed horse formation is because when they, I personally watched them,
when they wanted to go somewhere with, when they were out hunting, when they
were out hiking, say like, and they wanted to go somewhere fast, they could form
up into that formation and they could reach speeds of 100 miles an hour over the
desert by floating up above the ground and just going to zoom.
I used to watch them play at the runways at Indian Springs Air Base on summer
nights as the way tobogganists did where they would pretend they were airplanes.
taking off.
And then when they got to the end, they would lift up and go over the fence
around the runway and go out in the desert and turn around and pretend they were
airplanes doing touch and goes.
[0:20:28] Host/Interviewer:
Why do you think they were allowed to operate independently on kind of American
military grounds? So the
[0:20:35] Charles Hall:
superiors were kind of unaware? The base for them was like a foreign embassy.
And they've been here since the Ice Age. Do you think it was
[0:20:45] Host/Interviewer:
the nuclear testing that created some sort of wheeler tunnel or something that
they traveled through? Or like, why there?
Why do you think they set up shop there?
[0:20:57] Charles Hall:
I'm certain that the Greys got here first and they were here before the last Ice
Age.
And that the Tall Whites got here second and they were here by at least the
middle of the last Ice Age.
And the Norwegians with 24 teeth got here towards the end of the last Ice Age.
And they were here by at least the middle of the last Ice Age.
The Tall Whites have the best technology. The Greys have really good technology.
The Norwegians are just barely able to travel in base and make it here.
When you look at the bases and where the Tall Whites and the Greys are, you have
to look at the way they were in the Ice Age.
There's a place out in the deserts that I was in.
It's out in one of the most desolate sections of the western deserts that you
can imagine. There's an L-shaped valley with desert mountains on both sides.
And then there's a valley on the northern side.
But in the southern side, the valley is an L-shaped valley and there's a dry
lake bed, a small dry lake bed on the southern side, and a huge amphitheater-
type set of ground that the Greys, the Norwegians, farmed during the Ice Age.
And in the mountain on the west, they'd cut 13 tunnels in the mountain on the
west, and they used them as a granary.
And the one on the north, the first one on the north, was larger than the
others.
And it was large enough for their deep spacecraft to come in and pick up grain.
And the 13th one overlooked the fields.
And at the top of the L-shaped valley and at the bottom of the L-shaped valley,
the mountains form a constriction.
So if you were a Grey teenager with a appropriate weapon, and you were sitting
there, you could monitor both entrances.
And so if any Ice Age animals came in to eat the grain, because they're plant
eaters, the tall whites and the Greys do not eat meat, they're only plant
eaters, you could keep them out and protect, keep them from eating your food.
And when you asked, and when you looked at the valley on the west, you could see
the ancient water lines from how high the lake had been during different stages
of the Ice Age. Now, Central Nevada was never glaciated.
It was only, it was just that in the Ice Age, because the weather was different,
it rained lots and lots, like it does in Kentucky.
And so those lake beds were not glacial lakes. They weren't glacial carved.
They were poluvial lakes, the Latin word for rain.
And therefore, the bottom, those lake beds were flat and the land leading into
them were perfect places to farm.
And what you were looking at was a granary, a farm that the Greys used during
the Ice Age.
[0:24:23] Host/Interviewer:
So it sounds like there are all these unique reasons as to why, as an
extraterrestrial presence, you'd set up shop in that area.
This is a really interesting point.
Something I kept coming back to while preparing for this conversation was this
strange possibility of, Area 51's weirdness didn't start because it's a military
base.
What if the base was put there because of a pre-existing weirdness in the
region? As Charles points out, the broader pattern is hard to ignore.
Many of the most restricted military ranges and test sites sit in the same kind
of landscapes, remote deserts, mountain valleys, and high plains, and sometimes
Native American burial grounds.
Sure, there are practical reasons for this when it comes to testing weapons and
spy planes, but often these places were tied up in UFO sightings, cryptic
creatures, electromagnetic anomalies, before military bases were even placed on
them. Many were even seen to be portals to other dimensions.
Maybe it isn't just a coincidence.
Maybe the military wasn't just picking up empty land, but claiming ground that
was very unusual.
To put it bluntly, maybe military bases often like to co-locate themselves with
very strange paranormal areas.
Skinwalker Ranch in northeastern Utah is perhaps the most public example.
I've been there myself, and you've no doubt heard the stories.
It's probably the most scientifically studied paranormal hotspot in the world,
at least on the civil side.
Multiple UFO sightings, glowing orbs, cattle mutilations, and even reports of
orange portals opening up in the air.
But it also has its former military connections. There was a U.S.
Army outpost in the region in the 19th sit not far from Dugway Proving Grounds.
In the 2000s, billionaire and government contractor Robert Bigelow received
Pentagon funding through the AAWSAP program to research the ranch.
Why, you might ask?
Well, folklore from the Utah tribe had already marked the land as cursed,
prowled by shapeshifters.
That was long before the Pentagon made it a research site.
And if you zoom out, the geography is interesting too.
You can draw a rough triangle between Area 51, Skinwalker Ranch, and Roswell.
Other paranormal hotspots with co-located military activity exist all over the
United States. For example, Sedona, Arizona.
Local legends speak of tunnels and gateways hidden in the cliffs, where star
people pass through shimmering portals.
The Bradshaw Ranch there became famous for UFO sightings investigated not long
ago by Ross Colthart. Eventually, the site was taken over by the U.S.
government, a move that raised some eyebrows. Sedona, Arizona.
Local legends speak of tunnels and gateways hidden in the cliffs, where star
people eyebrows.
Land fenced off not just for practical reasons, but because of whatever it is
said to be in the land itself.
Land that seems full of electromagnetic anomalies, and perhaps the same tunnels
in land that are occupied by the tall whites.
And that brings us back to the story of Nevada.
It's easy to forget that Area 51 isn't just one base.
It's part of a vast test range anchored by Nellis, swallowing up thousands of
square miles of desert.
Charles gets into this in just a moment, but the history of how this whole area
ended up getting claimed by the government doesn't quite add up.
Especially when it became a herd of desert sheep, suddenly becoming an issue of
national security.
And it begs the very important question, where this pattern extends overseas.
Look at where the United States has planted some of its overseas bases.
Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. Pine Gap in Outback Australia.
Sprawling compounds in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Some of these sites already had their own unusual reputations amongst locals.
Or maybe some other uses to our alien visitors from out of town.
[0:28:45] Charles Hall:
I subscribe to the Marine Corps theory.
If it happened once, it would be a coincidence.
If it happened twice, I'm sorry, if it was happened once, it would be random.
If it happened twice, it would be a coincidence.
But the third time you see it's there, somebody planned it. Okay? Yeah.
Now, remember, what else is out there? The desert game range, National Park.
Okay? Now, the desert game range was set up in the time of Franklin D.
Roosevelt. Okay?
It was, what, I talk about in my book, and it was like 1935 or 1937.
For some reason, FDR just got up all by himself, and after talking with a single
Army colonel, Army Air Force colonel, that the desert bighorn sheep who live in
the mountains like Sheep Peak, for which it's named, and the mountains to the
east, must be an endangered species. You say, wait a minute, this is 1937.
I didn't realize we had endangered species till 1970 or something.
This was 1937, and by executive order said, we got to make that a protected area
to protect the, desert bighorn sheep. They're white.
And if you're out there hiking, and you see something, in the words of the park
rangers, that looks like a human looking at you from over the sagebrush, which
may be as tall as six feet, don't look back, especially if it looks like a woman
with children, because the bighorn sheep don't like that. They'll attack you.
Just look away and walk away.
And in 1937, in order to protect the sheep, and that, we're talking before World
War II, Franklin Roosevelt and the Army Air Force decided that they would
station a battalion of anti-aircraft guns with live ammo to protect it, okay, so
it wouldn't be subject to Japanese air attack.
[0:31:08] Host/Interviewer:
And it was all that specific area.
[0:31:10] Charles Hall:
And that was it. That specific area, right.
And that was the desert bighorn, before there was an Area 51, before there was a
Nellis Gunnery Range, before there were, was a Camp Mercury or anything, there
was the Desert Southwest Game Range.
[0:31:25] Host/Interviewer:
So that's the first
[0:31:25] Charles Hall:
time there.
And you say that, so the sheep are being protected, by an anti-aircraft cruise,
that have live ammo, and they're open to fire at any airplane that goes across
there in 1937, and FDR just said that, well, I want the sheep to be safe.
And that's why it's called Sheep Peak.
And you say, when you look at it, Sheep Peak seems like a pretty easy place to
climb.
Why is it that the first time it was a matter of record that it was climbed,
that anyone climbed it, was 1970?
[0:32:01] UNKNOWN:
Okay.
[0:32:02] Charles Hall:
You say, well, remember, we did, we did Mount Everest

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:32:06] Host/Interviewer:
before that, right?
Well, it sounds like, you know, protecting sheep didn't help in any way.
sheep with, uh, you know, anti-aircraft, uh, technology, the most advanced at
the
[0:32:15] Charles Hall:
time, it seems like if you'd fire a few live rounds, wouldn't you kind of scare
them a little bit? Right. Yeah.
[0:32:22] Host/Interviewer:
So based on your rule, if it's like, you know, fool me once,
[0:32:25] Charles Hall:
okay.
[0:32:26] Host/Interviewer:
Fool me twice. Fine. Fool
[0:32:27] Charles Hall:
me
[0:32:28] Host/Interviewer:
three times.
You know, it's a, that's sort of a, you know, that's not a coincidence anymore.
What's the second time?
Is there a second time before area 51, which gets set up in the fifties, um,
that suspicious military or covert activity occurs in the region that might have
to do with the ET presence?
[0:32:46] Charles Hall:
Well, remember how good their technology is, the technology of the whites and
the technology of the grays. And I do not exaggerate.
I speak from direct experience.
When you say if they came here in the ice age and in order to, and they're plant
eaters, right?
And in order for, to get a little help with harvesting grain and doing manual
labor and things like that, there's nobody out in Nevada, where would they get
that from? Remember how good their technology is.
And I speak from direct experience.
If they wanted to use the scout craft, which is, oh, the tall white scout craft
or the gray scout craft.
Um, which I have both of which I've personally seen and in the time I've been
talking, if they wanted to say, lift off from the backyard and go to the moon
and circumnavigate the moon to check up on what's going on in the far side of
the moon and return and land in the backyard right here, they would have already
done so. That's how good their technology is.
One of the things I personally watched them do from a distance, because if you
get too close, the fields will burn you like a microwave, but like from a
distance of say, like two and a half, three miles was to lift, was to go onto
the scout craft and sit down in the seats, no, no seatbelts or anything, just
chairs like this and lift power up and power up the.
Not the outer coils, but just the bottom and control coils and lift off until
they were floating perhaps as far off the desert or above the sagebrush as the
height the camera is.
And then take a few seconds, like 30 seconds to power up completely the outer
coils. It takes a few seconds to do so. When they do. So.
Before they do so, the craft looks the way you're expecting.
If you saw a helicopter out there, you'd see the actual metal of the helicopter,
but after they're powered up, they just look real fuzzy white, like a Tic Tac,
because they're surrounded with force fields.
You no longer see the actual metal.
You just see the force field and the way it's fuzzing over light and interacting
with it. Once they're powered up. They're ready for high speed maneuvers. Let's
[0:35:38] Host/Interviewer:
get
[0:35:38] Charles Hall:
into it.
If they choose to go straight down the line of sight, they can go seven miles at
an average speed of 8,000 to 12,000 miles an hour, stop, power down and set
down.
And in the process, they would have taken more than 15,000 Gs starting and
15,000 Gs stopping, just sitting there in the room like this.
And, and, and in case you're wondering how much that is, 10,000 Gs will liquefy
steel.
[0:36:15] Host/Interviewer:
What's the, is the speed of light is like 86,000 miles per hour?
[0:36:19] Charles Hall:
186,000.
[0:36:19] Host/Interviewer:
186,000. Okay.
[0:36:21] Charles Hall:
Miles per second.
[0:36:22] Host/Interviewer:
Miles per second.
[0:36:23] Charles Hall:
And they can do.
[0:36:24] Host/Interviewer:
So if they're going eight to 10,000 miles per, per hour, there's still massive
difference between that and. They're
[0:36:30] Charles Hall:
not even in low gear. They're not even in low gear. Yeah.
[0:36:33] Host/Interviewer:
Not even in low gear. Wow.
[0:36:34] Charles Hall:
If they go, if they do that and they choose to go sideways, they'll go side.
They'll just seem to blink out.
You'll be looking there and they'll just seem to disappear before your eyes
because they will have accelerated and moved to the side so fast your eyes can't
follow. I speak from direct experience.
And if you're looking up and straight up Indian Springs Valley, and they choose
to pop over to Dogbone Valley and come down.
And then come in one of the Northern passes to see what you're doing, it'll look
like they just blinked out there and magically reappeared over there.
Less than a second or two later, if they wrote in the hands of a skilled pilot,
I, a lot of people who still believe in Einstein will mistakenly say they went
to another dimension. Really? They haven't. They've done it.
If you were in the way it would run, this craft would run into you. There were.
There is no such thing as wormholes or warping base and time.
What you're warping isn't base and time.
You're interacting with other force fields that are all matter has.
And you know, the same way that you might have an electric field of different
shapes or a magnetic field of different shapes. But time never slows down.
Time never runs in reverse. Time is just time. It always goes forward.
[0:38:00] Host/Interviewer:
Have you ever flown in a craft?
[0:38:02] Charles Hall:
Yes. Yeah. A couple of times I did.
[0:38:05] Host/Interviewer:
What was
[0:38:05] Unknown Guest:
that like?
[0:38:07] Charles Hall:
Well, I was in the cargo hold at the time because there was, as I described in
my books, the day after I thought I'd broken my kneecap and then it healed up,
there was the next morning when they came down to get me and take me up to their
base up at area 54, 53 to see if I needed a surgery on my knee. And was it the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:38:29] Unknown Guest:
tall whites? Yeah.
[0:38:31] Charles Hall:
And when I got up there, the American generals were there and medical people
were up there too. And I didn't. I just bruised it.
But the tall whites had to prove to the Americans that they were telling them
the correct or wanted to prove that.
And so they came down and grabbed me and put me in the hold of the cargo shop.
And I still remember the trip up there and the trip back.
[0:38:56] Host/Interviewer:
Where did they go? Did you leave?
[0:38:59] Charles Hall:
No. They just, they just left.
They just lifted off and we just went gently up the valley, perhaps a hundred
feet off the ground.
And I remember flying around range fours and made the turn around range four and
then going up the valley to the, they were going to the scout craft, the back
entrance to their scout craft hangar.
And the door was open and we went in there and then there was a whole bunch of
men there, but there were also American, an American general and some American
medical people and the six sergeants that was chief master sergeants that were
the guard. Human soldiers.
Human guards for the human generals and the teacher and range four Harry.
And it was just like sitting here in a chair only in the cargo hold.
And they didn't do it as, they didn't totally power up cause they didn't have
to.
And it was, it was like sitting here in the chair and having the whole room just
be lifted up and taken and come back. And it was remarkably unremarkable. Yeah.
Yeah.
The, the important part was that they thought they had electronically hypnotized
me, but their equipment doesn't work if you're sick or if you're angry or if
you're really tired.
And since I was, even though my knee was not broken, I was still experiencing
some pain. You know, it was still tender.
It meant that the way my thoughts, the blood flow in the brain was, was
something that was somewhat different than the way it would normally be.
And so therefore, when you use the electronic hypnotism on me, that would
normally have worked when I was ordinary, if I was healthy and well rested, it
didn't quite do the job.
[0:40:46] Host/Interviewer:
It's almost like anesthesia that doesn't work and during surgery or something.
Yeah. So speaking of.
[0:40:53] Charles Hall:
So I got to remember it. Yeah. Uh.
Range four Harry knew that was the case, but that was all he could do. Yeah.
[0:40:59] Host/Interviewer:
Why do you think they chose you for all of this?
Why do you think you were sort of picked to be endowed with this knowledge?
[0:41:06] Charles Hall:
One time I asked a different person who was one of the top identified himself as
one of the top three psychiatrists at the CIA, one of the time I asked him why
they chose me. Okay.
Because I said, I thought there were lots of men that were better at going out
in the desert and surviving and doing fixing trucks.
And so on than myself, a lot of weather observers with more experience and so on
than me. And he told me the following.
He said that, and he had like nine PhDs hanging on the wall for different facets
of psychiatry. And he was a very nice guy.
He was surprisingly young, like in his thirties.
He said that when he studied psychiatry, he was told that there was a hundred
and five different.
Different psychological defenses that humans might use the most famous is
whistling in the dark. Okay.
He said that most humans only use one or two at the most, that one of the
projects that he and the others usually did was trying to train colonels and
generals on how to have more psychological defenses. Yeah.
And they were hoping to get generals to use three, or they always want them to
use three. They were hoping they could get them to use four or five.
This is of the hundred and five.
And he said that he had told his, the other guys that were with him,
psychiatrists, that some of the, there were a couple of, there were some
generals he was trying to train.
He thought he was going to get them to learn seven and he couldn't.
They were going to hang in there at three.
He said that the first time he met me, he was shocked because in the first 15
minutes, he saw me use the first 70 out of the hundred and five.
And he was a certain I could use the other hundred, the other, the remainder of
the hundred and five. And you can see it in my books.
He said the 41 men that went out before me who all came back compromised and
some of them burned.
He said the problem they had in his opinion was that they recognized what they
were up against or something of what they were up against before they understood
how they were going to re had decided how they were going to react. Okay.
And he said that in, and therefore what happened was in just the first
encounter, there are psychological defenses got destroyed.
And he said that the reason they sent me, he said, if there ever was a person to
send, it would be you. He said, it's because they'll never lay a glove on you.
They'll never that, you know, that no matter what happens, you know, you have a
defense for it. Okay. And
[0:44:20] Host/Interviewer:
they had evaluated that prior to
[0:44:23] Charles Hall:
sending
[0:44:23] Host/Interviewer:
you
[0:44:24] Charles Hall:
out
[0:44:24] Host/Interviewer:
to commune with the Ethiopians.
[0:44:25] Charles Hall:
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, they have a, you know, and you can see it in there in my, there was a time
when I thought that the extraterrestrials, the extraterrestrial lady I was
looking at, that I was hallucinating and I was kind of surprised because I was
kind of thinking that if I was going to hallucinate it, I was alone out in the
desert, I was young and single, that if I was going to hallucinate that it would
be more like a Las Vegas show girl and she wasn't, you know?
And I thought, my God, how sick am I?
I'm not even, you know, see, and she was laughing and she, cause she could tell
that I was thinking because of her electronic equipment, you see, and there was
a time when I was, there was a time when I thought that it, that I must be short
on vitamins when they would come into my barracks at Indian Springs and I would
get up and I would see the children playing and I thought, golly, I knew I
should have drank more milk. It's for supper.
I must be short on vitamins and milk.
And so I would take more vitamins and they would still keep coming.
There was a time when I... But
[0:45:33] Host/Interviewer:
you're also debriefing with generals who are admitting that this is a phenomena
that they're aware of and that they're kind of working alongside these ETs.
Is that right?
[0:45:41] Charles Hall:
No, I'm never debriefed. You're never debriefed. I'm never briefed.
I'm never debriefed. Not only, that's not an accident.
My orders are, I can never be briefed. I can never be debriefed.
And the reason is very simple.
Because the tall whites, like the teacher, can tell what a person is thinking,
even if they're not talking.
Well, if you're debriefed and they're very touchy about their children, if a
briefing person were to say, what kind of mother is the teacher, you know, how
does she treat her little girl?
I mean, she was lost in the sagebrush and you saved her life.
How did they let that happen?
See, then they wouldn't have to ask me to tell them about it.
See, they could tell it by just reading my thoughts.
The next thing they would demand is that somebody, like that officer, be
delivered to them out in the desert and he wouldn't live another moment. Okay.
Yeah.
And she, I wouldn't have to say anything or do anything or say, oh, because she
could just tell, oh yeah, I read Charlie and I see that happened. See.
And I say that no one could ever ask me questions. I could never be debriefed.
Nothing I would do would ever be classified like no one could, I mean, they
couldn't even inspect me.
If they wanted to talk to me, they physically had to come out to the parking out
of the chow hall at Indian Springs between noon and 1230.
And I would meet them there if I felt like meeting them, or if I didn't, then
they would just, and before they went out, they would have to check in with the
base commander at Magnolias.
And when they came back, they had to go directly from checking on base to the
base commander and say, yeah, I looked healthy and so on.
And I could, and they couldn't come out and inspect my barracks or see anything.
[0:47:38] Host/Interviewer:
Have you, you mentioned the CIA psychiatrist who said that you had all these
psychological defenses and that sort of allowed you to enter into relations with
the
[0:47:52] Charles Hall:
ETAs. It
[0:47:52] Host/Interviewer:
allowed me. And come back intact.
[0:47:54] Charles Hall:
No.
It allowed me to protect my thoughts, the person I am before admitting to myself
[0:48:04] UNKNOWN:
they
[0:48:04] Charles Hall:
are real and I know what I'm going to do.
[0:48:07] Host/Interviewer:
Have you ever heard the name Kit Green? Is that familiar to you
[0:48:10] Charles Hall:
at all? It doesn't ring a bell, but I probably heard him.
But see like, see, see like, like the first thing I agreed, the first agreement
I made with them was after realizing they were real.
That I asked him that whenever they came around me, that they talk between
themselves, if they were talking between themselves or with me in a way that I
could hear to speak English, because it frightened me if they were talking
between themselves and it sometimes sounded like horse winnings or bird calls.
And they agreed.
And then the second one was that if I saw them out in the desert, like if I came
over a rise.
And there was one sitting on a rock, I understood that it was easy for me to
sneak up on him behind him and surprise him and I didn't want to do that.
I would just stop where I was and stand where I was and sing a song and let them
know I was there.
And then if they wanted to come closer, I would just stand there and they could
walk up towards me and stop whenever they wanted to.
I wouldn't pursue, I wouldn't close the gap.
And if they got too close to me so that I started feeling intimidated, I would
start backing away and they would stop.
And then when we had decided how far apart we were going to be physically, then
we could communicate.
[0:49:45] Host/Interviewer:
Your wife, Marie-Therese, mentioned that you actually were sent out initially.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[0:49:52] Charles Hall:
Initially. Yeah.
So I was supposed to go from after doing my basic training at Lackland, then I
was put in PAT standing, you know, that was airmen waiting their security
clearance, okay?
And those airmen that were going to get a security clearance and be sent to San
Angeles, Texas for Security School 101 were supposed to wait there for like
three weeks or so, okay? Now, the security clearance you're waiting for.
It's whatever the government decides to give you, but it's supposed to be the
top-secret clearance, okay?
Now the security training, the people who are sent to San Angeles, Texas are
waiting to get their orders to San Angeles, Texas.
However, in my case, they issue two sets of orders, the real ones to San
Angeles, Texas, and the cover orders. Okay.
[0:50:56] UNKNOWN:
And the
[0:50:56] Charles Hall:
cover orders are to the weather training school at Schooner Air Force Base,
Illinois.
The idea is that the captain, who is in charge of those guys, who has a safe for
classified material that's locked, this is 1965, times have all changed since
then, he's the one that will give out my orders.
The day sergeant can give out all the rest of the orders, okay, yeah, because my
clearance is going to be a higher clearance than theirs.
Well, the Friday that they came in, the captain is off playing golf.
Now, as a military officer, he's supposed to be on duty.
He's off playing golf and left the sergeant in command.
The sergeant does not have the clearance to know about my orders.
So when the clearance comes, the orders come in for everybody else, and we were
all in the same class together at boot camp. Okay.
I think a mistake has been made,
[0:51:58] SPEAKER_04:
okay?
[0:52:00] Charles Hall:
They get their orders. I go in with them. There's no orders.
I say, well, because my cover orders are in a different location than their
orders, but they're not locked up, see? They're just in the temporary out box.
Well, I ask the sergeant, I got no orders. Aren't I going to weather school too?
So the sergeant goes and gets those orders and says, oh yeah, here's your
orders, and hands them to me.
So I go out and I get on the bus, you know, I got my stuff packed.
Now my drill sergeant had made a very special point.
He said, anytime you do anything in the military, keep two copies of your orders
because you can't trust your officers. Right? Genius. Right? I keep two copies.
Right? Okay. So I get on the bus. I'm not on the travel mass, but I got orders.
So what?
So they throw me on the airplane and they send me to shoot at Air Force Base,
Illinois. If you can't shoot them, that place. Okay.
Well, I'm in the base and everybody else is getting paid and I'm at weather
school and I'm the best student in the class.
And after like six weeks, I still haven't been paid.
And so I go and I ask the command, my immediate commander, can I go see, I'm not
getting paid.
He sends me over to the base payroll offices and they look at the records and
they're panicky. You're on this base. And they send me back to weather school.
I go back to weather school and two MP air policemen and a dog come in and grab
me and march me over to the base commander's office. I'm a little terrified.
And the base commander says, Airman Hall, if you have a copy of your order
showing you that you're supposed to be on this space, then you're going to be a
happy man.
And the, whoever gave you the orders is not going to be very happy, but if you
don't have, have a copy of the orders, the man who gave them to you is going to
be a happy man. And you're not going to be a soldier.
You're not going to be a very happy soldier because the generals tell me you're
too valuable a man to be wasted at this school. I had two copies in my wallet.
I said, thank you, Sergeant Master Sergeant Peoples. I graced his hand.
I said, do you need another one? I can copy this, right? I was a happy man.
They said, well, we'll, they will decide what to do. Right.
So, so they'd been looking for me at San Angeles, Texas for six weeks.
The FBI had been looking for me at my house in London. Nobody had found me.
I go back and the Sergeant comes out and says, you're going to Nellis. Okay.
Wow. Yeah. They said they gave me a, the usual wish, wish list.
When you have your, when you finish with a school name, three places you'd like
to go. I said, Germany, England, and March Air Force Base, Los Angeles.
And I said, no, you're going to Nellis. Okay.
[0:54:58] Host/Interviewer:
How soon after you're stationed at Nellis, do you encounter this abandoned
weather station and meet your first tall white?
[0:55:07] Charles Hall:
Well, the first time that I heard tell of the tall whites at Nellis was at my
very first duty session at Nellis with another airman, which I describe in my
book. Okay.
He was the airman that had been on leave for several weeks because he claimed
the Nellis weather station was haunted.
And it was the, it's not the one you see there today.
It was the old one that was the Northeast end of the base operations building.
The base operations building was a very nice building for its day as was the
weather station. I describe it in my book and it had something very important.
It was those military version. Okay. Of an airport terminal.
And it had something very important. It had clean restrooms.
The next clean restroom was a mile away in a group of barracks they were still
building to get to another clean restroom, you had to go a mile and a half away.
Okay.
He claimed that when he was working night graveyard and he was in his, he had
been in this military, he was on his fourth year.
That he, the previous winter that taught that he thought ghosts, you and I would
say a group of five tall white aliens had come in off the runway, off the
tarmac, unlocking the padded, the glass doors between the base operations, the
interior of the base operations building the tarmac, because one of the force
fields will make every piece of material repel. Okay.
Every other piece of material and just pop every lock open.
And that when he came in, there was one waiting outside standing guard, one
holding the door open or, and one, and then that's two men and then three women,
one holding open the door to the bath or to the bathroom, another one inside
holding, helping them hold open the door to the bathroom while the third one was
using the ladies restroom and that they were rotating.
So that they'd come in to use the restroom.
He didn't, he, although he described them doing that, he didn't appreciate what
he was describing. He thought they were ghosts.
He panicked immediately and started screaming, locked himself in the doorway and
in the, and called the base air police only to discover that the Nellis base
commander said, no, the air police cannot come beyond the road junction a mile
away. He's on his own. Okay.
Now I know from firsthand experience that he was telling the truth because there
came a day when I had worked, when I was working graveyard, actually a whole
bunch of days on Sunday night when everything was empty, when that would happen.
And the reason that they came was because they're just like us.
The bathroom that was a mile down, which the mechanics down in that hangar
airport hangar thought was. It was. Okay.
It was haunted, was occasionally visited by tall white men who had to go to the
bathroom and it was a mess. Never cleaned. Okay.
And if you were out with two men and three women who wanted a clean bathroom and
the one, the mile and a half down was too far and wasn't suitable.
And you said, where do we want to go to the bathroom?
You'd say, I know just the place.
It's the one in the base ops and on Sunday night, there's nobody around.
There's the weather observer. And he's usually sleeping at night.
Like he should. Okay.
He's not supposed to, but usually they did actually, that was a great place to
sleep on. I did myself. Didn't, but I had too much fun reading books and stuff.
And so, and even the guy that I was, he was my OJT instructor.
He also claimed that on a different night when he was in there, that one of them
came and peeked at him around the corner and said, don't worry, the women just
want to use the restroom. He screamed and called the base, the police again.
And they wouldn't come. And he had a nervous breakdown.
So, you know, and that happened to me, I said, um, yeah, don't forget the candy
bar machine. You know, you guys may be hungry. Right.
And that's what psychological defenses do for you. You see, that's a difference.
And, and, but that's the first one.
He told me the story, but I didn't actually see the tall whites on that night.
Then a few nights later, when he had.
I had been given an honorable discharge because the Pentagon insisted that he
and I alone in the warehouse on Sunday night, alone in the weather station
together work at least one duty shift.
And then he would be given an honorable discharge of section eight, which he
was.
Then when I was with my next duty shift, my next OJT instructor, and he was
working a double shift. I was working swing shift. When I was.
When I came left at midnight and I was trying to hurry to get to the base up to
the base chow hall, as I was walking back the mile or so to my barracks, one of
the new ones being built, I would end up when I turned around following me was
the tall white girl that the 12 year old.
And I was about a quarter mile down from the base up from the weather station
and backed by the white elephant.
Was the teacher and two bridge for Harry and another tall white guard happily
watching me from a distance.
And all she was doing was just following me intentionally showing herself at the
time.
I, when you talk about what good are such psychological defenses at the time, I
couldn't believe my eyes, even though they matched what the guy had told me just
a few days before. I decided that because I was tired, I must be sleepwalking.
And I'd said, well, gee, I, I thought if you slept, I didn't realize it.
You could actually walk and see things when you were sleepwalking.
And so I turned and I tried to continue walking.
I expected to hurry and get to my barracks before I had a brain stroke or
something and collapsed.
And I thought, and then I turned around and after going a few steps and there
she was, she still followed me.
And I had been reading a book on the Titanic, which I can talk about later.
And in the Titanic, it described a group of angels who came in a craft, land on
one of the lifeboats and landed on the ledge of one of the icebergs and dropped
wreaths to, for people in the water to use as life preservers, which didn't
work.
And I, and, and when I, and one of how one of the angels was good at floating
out over the water and dropping her. Her hand.
And when I turned around and I was just watching her, she smiled.
That girl, she lifted up, turned on her, turned up the power on her suit, lifted
up a little bit further till the top of her feet were about as far off the
ground as the top, not as top, almost the top of that share chair flew over
beside the sidewalk, which was over the grass. And. So. And.
So she went back and went over the grass a little bit and saw on the grass,
something that she, a piece of wrapper or perhaps a quarter or something that
interested her.
And with her feet still in the air bent, lowered her shoulders, reached down on
the graph and picked it up, assuming the very same position that was described
in the book on the Titanic, that I had previously read.
Like that night or two nights before described by the lady in the survivor of
the lifeboat that was picked up by the Carpathia as described in the book that I
was reading.
And like she was the very same girl and considering that the 12 whites live 600,
800 years, 10 times longer than we do, she could have been. Okay.
And when I looked at it, I was stunned. And I still didn't make the position.
The association.
The association between those people and extraterrestrials, that's what
psychological defenses do for you.
And I decided that I must just be sleepwalking or there must be something with
me mentally.
And I went home and I went back to my barracks and lay and, and, and, and life
continued.
[1:04:15] Host/Interviewer:
So how let's get into the hall photon theory because, and just to set this up
for the audience also in the thirties.
In 1935, Einstein, Rosen, Podolsky come up with their sort of spooky action at a
distance entanglement.
And it's known as Einstein's dilemma because Einstein had always kind of almost
put a governor on reality. The speed limit of reality is
[1:04:38] SPEAKER_00:
the
[1:04:38] Host/Interviewer:
speed of light.
And yet with photons observably, you see this sort of entanglement effect where
optical properties, various optical properties seem to mirror one another at
vast distances, just And so how is the hall photon theory and update on that?
And how does that unlock faster than light travel in the form of a spacecraft?
[1:05:02] Charles Hall:
Well, to begin with, I'd like to thank you for this nice interview.
And if I don't fit and be having us on your podcast, I'd like to congratulate
you on just out thinking Einstein.
When you say what's it feel like to be smarter than Albert Einstein, I say,
well, I know a guy. He eats. That's not just me because what you say is correct.
And at the easiest way to see it is starting with the way Einstein did with the
Michelson-Morley experiment of 1897. Okay? In 189, which was a failure.
[1:05:37] Unknown Guest:
Yes.
[1:05:37] Charles Hall:
In 1897, everyone thought that a photon of light had only two force fields, an
electric field and a magnetic field that oscillated together. Okay. And...
[1:05:51] Host/Interviewer:
perpendicular to one another.
[1:05:52] Charles Hall:
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
And then they did the Michelson-Morley experiment, and then they wanted to
interpret it as though it were a experiment that you would do with little boats
crossing a river and going up and down in the river, when they didn't know
anything about the, they thought they knew everything there was to know about
the photon, that there was only two force fields, so they could pretend that
they knew everything about how a photon looks like a little boat going across
the river, okay?
When the experiment failed, then nobody wanted to say there has to be more
structure to the photon than what we know about. Nobody wanted to do that, okay?
The James Clerk Maxwell had done his equations, and they didn't wanna say
there's more force fields that Maxwell's equations don't include but should,
okay? The more, and, they oscillate too.
They wanted to say we know everything there is to know about the photon.
And then they wanted to say, and we know everything about the river and the
banks and stuff and the little boats that cross it.
So now they had reasoned themself into a corner, so why did the experiment fail?
And they monkeyed around like that until Einstein, and they finally asked
Einstein, but he's- But
[1:07:11] Host/Interviewer:
I think of it as a failure to detect the ether, the Michelson-Morley experiment.
Is that right, to think
[1:07:16] Charles Hall:
a
[1:07:17] Host/Interviewer:
medium through which- That's what- Photons would be carried?
[1:07:20] Charles Hall:
That would make sense, yeah, that there was no ether, but then that left the
question, so why isn't there at least some change?
Why did the experiment totally fail, okay?
Along the way, they ignored things about the experiment.
The first one is that if you do the experiment with one photon at a time in the
interferometer, you get the same results.
And that means that the photon has to be split in two for that to work.
Today, we call that photon entanglement, but back then they said, well, I don't
know, spook you at a distance, right?
And then if you do it with photons of just red light, then you get the same
results, but the bright bands of light are still red light.
And so therefore, the explanation that the photons would constructively
interfere and destructively interfere can't be correct because if they
constructively interfered, they would have to change color.
Blue photons have twice the energy of red photons.
So that would mean you would be sending in blue light or sending in red light
and looking at interference patterns of red light, but that's not the case.
All that's happening in the interferometer is that the photons are being steered
into bands of red photons that needs another force field to do the steering.
[1:09:03] Host/Interviewer:
So what is, if you have, in traditional electromagnetism, classical
electrodynamics, you have an electric field, a magnetic field, and a wave, and
they're all sort of running perpendicular to one another, what other field types
do you think exist in the whole photon theory?
[1:09:19] Charles Hall:
A whole bunch, okay? Like
[1:09:22] Host/Interviewer:
what?
[1:09:23] Charles Hall:
Okay. And remember, the force fields can be different force strengths.
The electric force, magnetic force field, is considered pound for pound to be
like what, a trillion times, I might not have that number right, 100 million
times more powerful pound for pound than the force of gravity. Yeah,
[1:09:49] Host/Interviewer:
it's 10 to the 40th.
[1:09:50] Charles Hall:
But because the force of gravity is weaker, pound for pound, than the
electromagnetic field, the force of gravity can move further than light, okay?
So the force of gravity from our galaxy can affect the nearby galaxy, the
Andromeda Galaxy, at 2.7 million light years, whereas the force of electricity
from our galaxy cannot, right?
But Einstein wanted to ruin that analogy by saying, man, to protect his own
reputation, I guess, I have no idea why, trying to say that nothing could travel
faster than light, not even gravity.
But obviously, if gravity can travel further than light, it must be traveling
faster than light.
If you look at the symmetry of the Andromeda Galaxy, and you say, well, it's,
what, 10,000, 100,000 light years, 200,000 light years across, and that means
that, and it's so well-organized, gravity must be traveling trillions of times
faster than light.
Otherwise, if the stars were trying to do that, and gravity was only traveling
at the speed of light, they'd all bump into each other.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:11:09] Host/Interviewer:
Why do you, so is gravity in your model also orders of magnitude weaker than
electromagnetism?
Because if it's traveling that far and having an effect, a, a pulling effect
between mass bodies.
[1:11:21] Charles Hall:
If it's weaker, then it could go further. Mm. And see, in the photon.
[1:11:26] Host/Interviewer:
How does that hold, if it's weaker, it goes further?
[1:11:30] Charles Hall:
Because it's like a, it's like a milk truck delivering milk, right?
If it's gonna go down a street and hit every house, and it's gonna stop and
interact along the way, or at least stand ready to, but if it's gonna just do
one house here and a house 10 miles down, the guy can go into high gear. But
[1:11:49] Host/Interviewer:
I would think of, like, attenuation as being, you know, like a, a, a way of
being, you know, a
[1:11:54] Charles Hall:
certain amount of strength, and then it attenuates.
The only way a force field can attenuate is a, say like grav, I'll, I'll say
like gravity. Mm-hmm.
Is for there to be an interaction cross-section put up by another piece of
matter or energy somewhere, down the road, and then when it's traveling, it's
not trying to interact with the electric field. Mm-hmm.
It's trying to interact with another gravity field, and those are attractive
interactions.
And if it casts, and, and because it doesn't have to, there is no interaction
cross-section between gravity and, say, an electric field that would be
traveling through, then it could.
It could travel much, much faster, much, much further.
That's what the neutrino is. Mm-hmm.
The neutrino, we're told, can travel through, if everything between the center
of the sun and here were solid gravity, a neutrino could travel through it all
and not interact with anything.
[1:13:05] Unknown Guest:
Yep.
[1:13:05] Charles Hall:
So therefore, a neutrino can travel many, many times faster than light.
Okay, however, you say, well, what about the neutrinos that, say, are measured
at the CERN reactor?
[1:13:17] SPEAKER_04:
Mm-hmm.
[1:13:18] Charles Hall:
Well, if they're going to interact using electricity and magnetism, then they
have to slow to that speed the electricity and magnetism to perform the
interaction, because time doesn't change.
Time is always flying at the same rate. They're all in the same timeframe.
[1:13:35] Host/Interviewer:
Do you think we have neutrino detectors?
[1:13:39] Charles Hall:
That's why neutrinos are so hard to detect.
[1:13:41] Host/Interviewer:
Yeah.
[1:13:43] Charles Hall:
But there are
[1:13:43] Host/Interviewer:
rumors that we have neutrino detectors, like at the South Pole and, you
[1:13:47] Charles Hall:
know, kind of exotic.
[1:13:48] Host/Interviewer:
Well, the
[1:13:48] Charles Hall:
whole photon theory says that within light, that light is a bundle of force
fields, and there have to, so there have to be a whole bunch of force fields in
the photon, okay?
And you must have to have variations of photons that have different collections
of those different force fields, because you have photons and neutrinos, which
you see, which are very similar.
And those photons, that means that even though photons that we're used to are
limited by the speed of light, because it, because the electric field and the
magnetic field have interaction cross-sections, that, you know, the permittivity
of free base and so on, right, okay?
That it has to touch base, it has to vibrate all those piano wires, if you will,
when you, if you have those other force fields be weak force fields, like the
neutrino is surrounded by weak interaction force fields.
They don't got to vibrate the electromagnetic wires, you see?
They only got to vibrate their own wires. They may not have to do it at all.
If you say, well, what are the permittivity of free base for those other force
fields? They're much less than the ones for electricity and magnetism.
Therefore, when you say, let me compute the speed of light for those force
fields as I do in beyond relativity, you come up with a speed a trillion times
faster.
[1:15:30] Host/Interviewer:
Charles, using the Hall photon theory, how would you build the UFO and how would
you basically propel yourself faster than light?
[1:15:39] Charles Hall:
Well, I'll give you some general principles, okay?
Based on what I personally saw in the deserts, the first thing is the UFO must
be a smooth ellipsoid, like an egg or a tic-tac, because the first principle of
designing the different force fields and so on is there cannot be any
turbulence.
[1:16:12] Host/Interviewer:
What about a saucer? Does
[1:16:13] Charles Hall:
that rule that
[1:16:14] Host/Interviewer:
out?
[1:16:14] UNKNOWN:
Okay.
[1:16:14] Charles Hall:
It depends on how the edges of the saucer are. It can't have anything concave.
An example of something concave is if, like on the camera, you have the lens,
and it's shaped nice, and then around it is a ring that sticks out.
And in between where the lens meets the ring is concave.
If that were the shape of a, of a spacecraft that you were trying to use to
propel yourself through space, you would be strictly limited to less than about
80% the speed of light, because the force fields in that region would obey
Einstein's theory of relativity, because they're not streamlined in that area.
They would go turbulent.
And once they go turbulent, the force fields will bump into each other, and the
heating can go to infinity.
The amount of energy that's lost in that little zone could go to infinity.
But convex is fine. Sorry?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:17:27] Host/Interviewer:
Convex is fine. Concave creates this
[1:17:29] Charles Hall:
turbulent kind of But if you took that lens and made it a complete ellipsoidal
sphere of glass, and you use that shape where there's no sharp edges, there's no
concave edges, where there's just, always egg-shaped, then when you surround it
with a bubble of force fields, they won't go, they won't go turbulent because
they're streamlined for high speed travel.
When you do that and you start accelerating towards the speed of light, it'll
just continue accelerating as though the speed of light weren't there.
It'll just go right on through.
[1:18:16] Host/Interviewer:
When you hear stories, Stories like Ryan Graves, Navy pilot, talk about a sphere
inside a cube or other kind of exotic, you know, looking objects that do have
pointy edges and, you know, don't always look like your traditional saucer or
egg or tic tac.
[1:18:33] SPEAKER_01:
In the 2003 timeframe, a large group of Boeing contractors were operating near
one of the launch facilities at Vandenberg Air Force Base when they observed a
very large hundred yard-sided red square approach the base from the ocean and
hover at low altitude over one of the launch facilities.
This object remained for about 45 seconds or so before darting off over the
mountains. There was a similar event within 24 hours later in the evening.
This was a morning event, I believe 8.45 in the morning.
Later in the evening, post sunset, there were reports of other sightings on
base, including some aggressive behaviors.
These objects were approaching some of the security guards at rapid speeds
before darting off.
[1:19:19] Charles Hall:
The force fields interact with light.
When you see, and you can see it on the tic tac video of the Navy pilots, when
you look at the video, the first question you have to ask yourself is when
you're looking at the edges of the craft, you have to ask yourself are you
looking at just the force fields that are interacting with light that go away
when the craft shuts down, or are you looking at the actual physical metal
ceramic parts of the craft, see?
And are you looking at a craft that was designed to exceed the speed of light,
Or are you looking at a craft that was just designed for a specialized general
kind of purpose here on Earth?
Because remember, the scout craft that you see, like for the grays and the
whites, did not make the deep base crossing.
Only the deep base craft make the deep base crossing. What
[1:20:44] Host/Interviewer:
are the differences? What's the main
[1:20:46] Charles Hall:
distinction? The difference is...
[1:20:47] Unknown Guest:
The scout craft, we use RVs to get around.
[1:20:51] Charles Hall:
Yeah, see, the deep base craft, and I speak from direct observation, they can
all be individual, like ships at sea, or they can be general purpose.
But one, for example, looks like, well, you see how this house is.
One that I personally saw was a little bit...
A little bit longer than this house, a little bit wider than this house, about
half, again, as high as this house.
And it was all totally smooth all around, you know, no protrusion or whatever.
It had the standard double hull, and then it had another...
And the way this house has this room, and then on the side, it had another set
of rooms. So it had the double hull on the outside, then it had a boundary area.
Where you'd store stuff on both sides.
And then it had the living area, where you had actual cabins, the way you do on
ships.
And then up at the front, you had the cockpit and the control area up on top.
And control lights up on top.
And then in the back, you had the propulsion system.
And that was meant to put sand out to deep base and head out for stars 100 light
years away. Okay, I'm quite certain of that.
On the other hand, see a saucer that you might have for your children to take
out to the play area, which I also saw. It's not meant to go faster than light.
It's just meant to go, like, from Bishop, California to Roswell, New Mexico in a
half hour.
And it could do it in 10 minutes, but it's just meant to have a couple of
teenagers. Take charge.
Put in three younger children, say eight or 10, and go out and play.
And just go around places here on Earth.
[1:22:55] Host/Interviewer:
So getting back to how you'd build
[1:22:56] Charles Hall:
the ideal.
When you build it, if you build it for deep space, and one that has, like, where
you have, like, a ball inside and then stuff outside, like a cube or something.
You might ask, is that really one?
Or is it the center ball is the real craft, and the outside is something like a
car pulling a trailer, you know?
See, you have to first ask, who are they and what did they mean to use that
craft for, you see? Because they don't just come here in a craft.
They build them while they're here.
Now, the Norwegians with 24 teeth can only repair their craft.
When they get here, at least in 1965, one of the things they wanted to be able
to do was to work with the American government and build craft here.
And that's, see, so whenever you see a craft, whether it's a deep base craft or
a scout craft or whatever, you have to ask, what's it meant for?
If you really expect to do high speed, like 50, well, like the scout craft.
And that's the kind of craft that the tall whites had that were ellipsoidal.
One time I asked, personally asked, Range 4 Harry if that craft could exceed the
speed of light. He was a very nice guy. We were like brothers.
He was very adamant.
He said it could, but nobody, I'm going to use my words, in their right mind
would ever take it that fast.
Once you got up to about 1% the speed of light, you were covering distance so
fast, in his words, that if anything went wrong, your friends couldn't find you.
And he didn't think it was made very well.
He pointed out that to repair it, you had to sit the craft down somewhere, like
in the desert, and go outside and open it up to repair it.
But that the real deep base craft, you could repair everything from the inside.
So the first thing that he thought that a deep space, that a deep base craft had
to have, was in addition to a double hull and fiber optic windings in between
those two hulls to carry subatomic particles that would generate the force
fields that you were working with, that you had to have access from the inside
of the craft to repair them. You had to be careful they didn't overheat.
If they overheated, you had to have the design.
You had to be able to repair that from the inside.
If you got in trouble, you had to have emergency beacons that used the force
fields that travel faster than light, to send for help.
Because those types of force fields that you're using in the design, like you
could see it in the TikTokarme, video, if you're going to control infrared rays
that are traveling at the speed of light, you want to use a force field that
itself is traveling faster than the speed of light.
Otherwise you can't catch them and control them.
[1:26:39] Host/Interviewer:
You mentioned that the engine or the propulsion is the only thing that the tall
whites didn't kind of fully give the humans as far as the ability to sort of fly
these UFOs. Direct observation. Yeah.
So what do you think as far as how do these engines work?
What's the power source?
And then obviously it's not chemical combustion, so what's going on in the
engine?
[1:27:06] Charles Hall:
I'm quite certain.
That there's more subatomic particles, more quarks, than the six they know of.
There's at least two more sets. But how do you figure that out when
[1:27:22] Host/Interviewer:
you have these like large Hadron colliders? It's like super
[1:27:24] Charles Hall:
expensive to build, it costs billions
[1:27:26] Host/Interviewer:
of
[1:27:26] Charles Hall:
dollars, so how do you...
When you sit down to design a craft, there's five subatomic particles that are
virtually always used because they're close to being stable and easy to work
with. And what you need is to have ceramic fiber.
In your engine, you have to produce those.
So you don't have just one engine, you have to have a way of producing all five
of those. And then what you have are ceramic fiber optic cables.
Ceramic fiber optics are 49.6%.
50.2% aluminum, 50.2% silicon dioxide, that's the same as rocks.
And the remainder is the semiconductor, germanium, selenium, and so on, that you
use to coat those fibers with to create fiber optics.
And then you wind those into coils. And those are...
And whether you power up those coils or don't power up those coils, that's how
you control and propel your craft, okay? And those five...
And how you design those five depends on what you want to do with your craft.
There's two more types of subatomic particles in that family that are more
unstable and are only occasionally used, but not for craft that you would ever
have done before. on, because all of the extraterrestrials travel as families.
They would only be... You'd only find them on military craft.
And then there's two more, and so far we've talked about a total of nine, okay,
that are so unstable that you would never use them when you were designing your
craft. You would only use them if you were designing a military weapon. Okay?
And when you say that number five, right, and the number seven, that seems to
ring a bell, doesn't it?
Because we're told that when Ike Eisenhower was president, that there was a day
that we're told publicly by ancient aliens and the old U.S.
press and so on, that there was a day at somewhere...
The British guy said it was at Edwards. Other people said it was...
It was at Alamogordo. But they say it was...
There was a day somewhere where he was taken, where they took him out, the day
he was supposedly golfing at Palm Springs and was taken to Edwards.
No cameras, no press, and sitting on the runway at Edwards were five spacecraft
with extraterrestrials by him. And that they were shown to Ike Eisenhower.
Not one, except for the guy whose name is Charlo, looked at that and said, that
makes perfect sense that they would do five.
Because what they were showing him was the general features of how their
spacecraft were designed. And you'd say, why five?
It's because they were showing that there were five different subatomic
particles and that when they designed them...
They first said, I'm going to use this one for this purpose, this one for the
second one for another purpose, and so on.
And so they were showing them that they had five different purposes in the
design. You see?
But those who mean well think that they just arbitrarily showed five.
Another one is number three. See?
The fiber optics coils melt suddenly at about somewhere between 1800 and 2200
Fahrenheit.
Not because they're made by aliens, but because rocks melt between 1800 and 2200
degrees Fahrenheit.
And if they're 50.2% silicon dioxide and 49.6% aluminum, that's what they are,
is rocks.
And if they melt, and if the fiber optics melt, as they melt, as they melt, as
they melt, as they did during the Roswell, the two craft that crashed at
Roswell, as described in my book, The Valley of the Grace, what you'll see, you
would think, would be melted rocks.
I know, I know, UFO people try to pretend that there was one saucer and it was
going fast and it bounced and it hit the ground and melted the rocks and then
bounced up and went on.
And my answer is, if you haven't, you know, when was the last time you saw
anything bounce against the rocks in a Nevada, in a New Mexico desert?
I never have. Once they hit the rocks, they break.
The reason there are melted rocks there is because there were two saucers and
the fiber optics were overheating and melting.
And when they melt, they melt like melted glass or lava, and they have a big
chunk that looks like lava.
And a big chunk falls and then it hardens and hits the ground and looks like a
melted rock.
So when you see those reports that the geologist came and his son said, these
are melted rocks and they left them behind, and they say, we went out and picked
up all the debris and we picked up this metal that resumes its shape, I said,
those were cigarette wrappers, those were gum wrappers.
Those were gum wrappers that did that.
What you passed over was the stuff you care about. I
[1:33:49] SPEAKER_00:
found a piece of metal about a foot and a half to two feet wide and about two or
three feet long. It felt like you had nothing in your hands.
It wasn't any thicker than the foil out of a pack of cigarettes.
But the thing that got me is that you couldn't even bend it, you couldn't embed
it, even with a sledgehammer, it would bounce off of
[1:34:11] UNKNOWN:
it.
[1:34:12] SPEAKER_00:
So, I don't know.
[1:34:13] UNKNOWN:
I don't
[1:34:13] SPEAKER_00:
know.
I knew that I had never seen anything like that before, and as of now, I don't
know what it was.
[1:34:18] Host/Interviewer:
So, you're saying, Jesse Marcel, that was just like the sort of memory metal,
that was just the kind of exhaust.
[1:34:25] Charles Hall:
That could have come off from a kid's toy, okay?
Yeah, because, see, what you have is after you've put in your melted, after
you've put in your coils, then you have to protect them from the weather.
Now, when you protect them from the weather, you're going to have to cover them.
You're going to have to cover them with a thin metal sheet, okay, but you're not
going to be able to support the metal sheet with an outside metal strap,
[1:34:57] UNKNOWN:
okay?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:34:58] Charles Hall:
You're not going to be able to protect the metal sheet with an inside metal
strap,
[1:35:05] UNKNOWN:
because
[1:35:06] Charles Hall:
you can't have turbulence in the force fields, and you can't, and the metal is
electromagnetic. Well, I don't know.
You can't screw it up without stray electromagnetism and so on, and when you're
designing it, you're going to start from square one, and then three times a day,
you're going to come up and say, I don't want any turbulence in this force
field. I don't want these coils to overheat.
You're going to leave, if you're a gray designer, and you're designing a craft
for gray children, then you're going to have, as per the Roswell Museum, you're
going to have some kind of You're going to have something that is missing from
their display model.
On the underside, you're going to have a little doorway that the operator of the
craft can open anytime he wants and let molten fiber optics fall out, okay?
Because he's in desperate mode to save his fiber optics, they have overheated,
and then he can close the door and take off again. Okay?
If he does, he may not be able to use all of his coils, so if he's by himself,
he's in deep trouble, as in the craft over the plains of San Agustin in 1947,
he's by himself, and he's got big trouble, but if he's got two craft beside him,
the fields from their craft and the fields from his craft will join together.
Okay?
As I've personally seen Range 4 Harry do with the high-speed horse formation to
form a single larger craft when the fields are present, and stabilize his craft,
and now the three together can fly off to someplace safe. Okay? You
[1:37:06] Host/Interviewer:
need to use specific metamaterials for these, you know, very intense, kind of,
you know...
You know, environments, and, you know, a lot of electricity, and, yeah, do you
need to use specific materials for the craft?
[1:37:20] Charles Hall:
Before you can know about the materials, you have to know about the subatomic
particles, because these ceramic fiber optics are supposed to contain, do what
fiber optics do today, what only they do it differently.
I've personally seen the fiber optics.
When, as I describe in my book, when I was in the sixth, the summer after my
sixth, between my fifth and sixth grade, when Ray Palmer, the editor, I believe
that was his name, editor of Flying Saucers magazine, in a store in London,
Wisconsin, and his childhood friend who ran the store, came back from Roswell
with a stretch about a yard long. And it was, it was woven.
It wasn't a thin strip of metal. It was like... They took...
They took nylon fibers, but it wasn't nylon, it was ceramic, and wound it.
And then when you flowed, shined the flashlight through it, the light would bend
without being absorbed. Now, you...
But before you do it for the craft, you first have to know about the particles,
because you have to know how to build the fiber optics before you can do
anything else. So
[1:38:35] Host/Interviewer:
Roswell...
You mentioned the Roswell grays, and you're talking about the Roswell craft.
The lore is that it made its way to Wright-Patterson.
Wright-Airfield at the time.
And you're saying it eventually made its way to Area 51, or to the Nevada test
range?
[1:38:48] Charles Hall:
I don't know where it made its way to, but I don't care, because I've seen the
real one, and I know what it looks like. According to just... Where'd you
[1:38:57] Host/Interviewer:
see it? Did you see it in Nevada?
[1:38:59] Charles Hall:
In Nevada. I've seen a craft of that type many times.
On one, as I describe in my book, on the Valleys of the Grays, on one cold and
snowy night, in the fall, back in the sixties, when I damn near died in the fog,
and the scout craft with the young lady in it, and some of her friends,
accompanied by the deep base craft and the teenage craft, they had gone down to
the bend in the road, and she alone, she was just learning to run the craft, so
they didn't let her take it up in the air, and before the fog moved in...
When I was walking down there, I was on the side of a hill, I was alone, and she
had brought the craft in on the paved, on the gravel road.
She just had the control coils running, and she had opened up the door on the
side.
I was very reluctant to approach a craft, because I knew from experience that
they all have those fields surrounding them, and that if you get too close, it's
like walking into the back of a jet engine, when the jet engine is running.
You gotta, you gotta just stay and let them see you, and let them come as close
as they want or you'll get your ass burnt. So I wasn't...
But she had powered down the outer coils, so from her point of view, there was
nothing keeping me from just walking the final distance, and stepping up into
the craft, and saying hi, and meeting her and the others who were on the craft.
I didn't realize at the time, that the teenager, who was the...
The back-up pilot, he was a young Grey.
They looked just like someone from Mongolia, but the other three, she and the
other three, were actually humans.
They were young Chinese people that the Greys had rescued, not abducted, but
they had been orphaned and the Greys had reputed, and the whole point was that
they were trying to return them to human society. And...
But first, you gotta find a human who everybody trusts, including the children,
and the human has to be somebody who trusts them in return, and the human they
had figured that they had chosen had this last name Hall and a first name
Charlie, okay? They're Charles, right?
And you say, well, why didn't they tell me?
And they say, well, that's why we picked him, because he'll figure it out if we
just give him time, right? Why tell him early and scare him? You know?
That's why we picked him, because he's perfect at convergent, divergent
reasoning, and he'll figure it out.
And that's what they're doing, waiting for me to come.
And what they had was the very same craft of the three that crashed at Roswell.
What they had was the very same craft. And in the back of that craft...
[1:42:04] Host/Interviewer:
Do you think we know how to fly
[1:42:06] Charles Hall:
these crafts now?
[1:42:07] Host/Interviewer:
Do
[1:42:07] Charles Hall:
you
[1:42:07] Host/Interviewer:
think humans know how to fly them?
[1:42:09] Charles Hall:
I'll finish this sentence and then I'll answer it.
In the back of that craft was a restroom.
In the back of all those people are real physical, biological entities.
They all have to eat, they all have to breathe air, drink water, and they all
have to periodically go to the restroom.
And therefore, every craft in the back has a bathroom. You see? Yeah. Yeah.
And so, when you say, like the crash at Kingman, the young lady that survived,
the sheriff there said that after she came out and they were waiting for help to
come, what did she do?
In his own words, he said she went back in the craft and stayed in the back.
And the UFO people say it must be a shrine where she was praying.
And of course, I think that's really laughable. Yeah.
Because having seen the craft, there's no shrine back there.
What there is is a bathroom. And there's also food storage.
And so, if the craft has crashed and she's got to wait a while, like every other
biological entity, they're going to fall back on the bathroom, you see?
There's no reason to fall back on the control panels because the craft isn't
running. That's why they crashed, see?
But the UFO people all have this thing, well, there was a time they said in all
those craft, there must be a shrine in the back, you know, where they go and
pray. And you'd say, no, no, no, no, I've seen the craft.
They're going, that's a bathroom, right?
And I have a whole class of stories in that vein.
And so, when I say my advantage is that I've been there and seen that, I say the
wreckage that was sitting in the hangar at Roswell that was recovered from
Roswell. When you say, what was that like?
Well, that wreckage had the bathroom on the other side.
And so, that meant for the part that blew in was blowing in on the food storage,
you see?
And so, when you went on the wreckage of that, I would guess that you'd find on
the other side what remained of the restroom, which might not be very much.
I said, and when... OK. What was your question that you wanted me to answer? I
[1:44:40] Host/Interviewer:
asked if humans, you mentioned that there were these Chinese occupants of the
craft. Do you think that humans can fly these exotic ET crafts?
[1:44:51] Charles Hall:
It's like everything else if they're trained, okay?
It's like if they have an opportunity to learn, if they have a trainer, if they,
yeah, it's not something you can do naturally.
For the same reason that a Cessna airplane is a, they tell me is a pretty simple
airplane to fly.
I've actually flown one as co-pilot for about 45 minutes, but not by myself.
There was a trained pilot.
I was in the co-pilot seat and the trained pilot was in the pilot seat.
And it was a nice night and all I was doing was flying straight and level and
saying, yeah, I'm not moving anything, okay? If you call that flying. Does
[1:45:39] Host/Interviewer:
the training involve the mind-matter connection?
There are rumors that there are no control panels.
Do you sort of psychically connect with the craft?
[1:45:50] Charles Hall:
You don't do anything psychically. Everything is electronics.
The electronics either are adjusted to tell what you're thinking and therefore
react because you're thinking, or to, you
[1:46:08] UNKNOWN:
know, to tell what
[1:46:09] Charles Hall:
you're thinking. And that's just to not work at all.
It isn't the person that has to change their way of thinking.
It's the person who's adjusting the electronics has to adjust it.
It's unique for each human.
[1:46:26] Host/Interviewer:
So how many of these tall whites were out there with you?
If you had to guess or estimate?
[1:46:34] Charles Hall:
It varied with how many ships were in port. It
[1:46:39] UNKNOWN:
varied with
[1:46:39] Charles Hall:
how many ships were in port.
The deep spaceships would arrive and would come and go on schedule the same way
an airport is. They liked to come and go near the night of the full moon.
And on the night of the full moon, the moon and the Earth and the sun all form a
line.
So behind the Earth in its orbit is a uniform gravitational field, and it's
going away from the incoming craft.
So if anything goes wrong, they can back off and the Earth won't run into them.
It'll go away.
This is much different than the Norwegians with 24 teeth who want to come in on
the front side of the Earth, because the Norwegians with 24 teeth with less
technology must land at any price, even if the Earth runs into them.
But the tall whites, the deep spacecraft of the tall whites, want to come in on
the night of the full moon.
The grays, who have a base on the moon, come and go at any time they want.
The tall whites, the craft come on schedule, and they have different schedules.
Some are making a two-month schedule.
The longest schedule I saw was craft that take five years, and those— the craft
with a five-year schedule, I was told, were coming directly from their home
planet.
Of course, since all the craft travel many times faster than the speed of light,
I'm not sure where their home planet was.
But if there were no craft in port, then the number of tall whites at the base
wasn't particularly large.
I'm not sure what the number was, but it would be rare to see as many as a
hundred out in the desert if there were no ships and deep spacecraft in port.
On the other hand, the night that Pamela was supposed to pass her test to head
up a technology transfer, a tall white technology transfer team, by dressing up
and disguising themselves as a tall white, by dressing up and disguising herself
as a human woman, and the other tall white, by dressing up and disguising
himself as a human man, specifically named Charlie Hall, and she would
specifically pretend to be his wife so they could go into places like Livermore
and pretend to be humans and talk to the scientists. I'm guessing…

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:49:26] Host/Interviewer:
Wait. Explain what you just said.
[1:49:29] Charles Hall:
In a minute. No. The, the night she was gonna pass that. Are you saying that
[1:49:34] Host/Interviewer:
you're a tall white?
[1:49:34] Charles Hall:
No, I'm not a tall white. I was born in Brooklyn, Wisconsin.
My parents all came from England.
[1:49:39] Host/Interviewer:
Well then, but they, they mimicked you.
One of the tall whites disguised themselves as you and your wife and then showed
up at Livermore labs.
[1:49:49] Charles Hall:
I'm guessing, I'm guessing.
[1:49:52] Host/Interviewer:
And how do you know, well, what,
[1:49:54] Charles Hall:
where did that come from? I've never seen any classified documents.
I'm guessing only from my personal experience talking with the tall whites.
[1:50:02] Host/Interviewer:
They've told you that they kind of used you for inspiration to infiltrate, or
not infiltrate, maybe that's too aggressive a word, but to enter American
scientific programs.
[1:50:15] Charles Hall:
I'm just totally guessing. But the night she was-
[1:50:19] Unknown Guest:
To show them how to not be afraid around humans and to act easily when in the
presence of humans.
[1:50:27] SPEAKER_04:
That
[1:50:28] Unknown Guest:
was his whole MO, that he was supposed to be there.
So they, cause they were as terrified of us as we might have been terrified by
them. And it was, that was what the program was.
[1:50:46] Charles Hall:
So what do you- But on that night, on that night, there were more tall white
scout craft located up the valley and on the eastern side of Indian Springs
Valley. On what night?
The night that Pamela was supposed to, to pass her final exam.
The crowd that formed of tall whites and a few human generals and bigwigs on the
eastern side of the valley, there were more than I could count.
I stopped counting at 35, but I guessed there were at least 70 there.
There were so many scout craft and tall whites that that whole side of the
valley, was white fluorescent white people, scout craft.
It looked like a county fair over there.
And all they were going to do is watch her, Pamela, while the teacher and Pamela
was there, over where the ammunition bunker was at, at three and a half miles,
was to, was to watch her, the teacher and Pamela, walk down the paved pathway or
one lane road, from the ammunition bunker on the east side, down to about a half
way, where there was a ridge. And then the teacher would wait there.
And then Pamela, with all of her technology turned off. Okay.
On totally trusting that I'm a nice guy to be around. Okay.
Otherwise totally helpless against me if I'm not.
She was supposed to continue walking down the, down the pathway until she got to
the range boards.
And then while I was working, while I was, had released the balloon and I was
tracking the balloon, to just walk over to me, disguised as a human, she didn't
have to be disguised as a human lady, just wearing her natural suit, totally
turned off, to just walk over to me, the way you and I are.
And then while I was working, walk around behind me and turn her back to me,
proving that she trusted me, just like the scene from the man called horse,
where the Indian chief does that to horse, turn around and talk to me with her
back turned towards me, totally turned off, for everything.
And then walk around to the other, with everybody watching, and then walk around
and say, it's been so nice to meet you, Charlie. And then go on.
And then, then she could then leave.
Then, and her husband, the guy pretending to be me as her husband, would then
have to do it next. Okay. On that night, on that night, she failed the test.
On that night, she panicked and got about, well, she didn't even get down, it to
the quarter mile limit, when she panicked and was afraid that I was a truly an
ugly monster that she couldn't trust and ran off.
But there came a night when she had to do that. And that's described in my book.
[1:54:15] Host/Interviewer:
What do you think the Tall Whites want with humanity?
Do you think they have goals for us?
Or do you think they're just trying to engage in diplomatic relations?
[1:54:27] Charles Hall:
Well, they came here in the middle of the last ice age, because we, for the same
reason, that we have a base on Guam.
The sun and the solar system exists in the middle of a huge void in space.
The next closest star, Alpha Centauri or Proxima Centauri, is almost four light
years away. Most stars or many stars have another star within two light weeks.
Okay.
It's not all unusual for many stars, to be not more than a light year apart.
For the, if you're gonna cross that big void in space, as you're conducting
interstellar commerce for your own good, then it's nice to have a place in the
middle.
Cause that void is there for something like eight or 10 light years across, or
six or eight, a big long line there.
That's nice to have a place in the middle, where you can stop and get food and
water, go outside your spacecraft and repair it, where you can stop and rest,
but also get minerals or other things that you might need.
[1:55:50] Host/Interviewer:
So it's a pit stop.
[1:55:51] Charles Hall:
It's a pit stop.
[1:55:52] Host/Interviewer:
Interesting.
[1:55:53] Charles Hall:
And of course, the reason that there are many of their spacecraft doing that is
cause there's only, is for the same reason that there are many Air Force planes,
is to stop at Guam. Cause location, location, location.
[1:56:07] Host/Interviewer:
What do you make
[1:56:08] Charles Hall:
of- Now, if you're there, it's a big help.
If you have some locals who grow some food for you, they're plant eaters, the
Tollowites, as the Grays are, and do the work of harvesting and hand you the
food.
[1:56:23] Host/Interviewer:
What do you make of rumors, stories, that like Eisenhower, you know, meeting
possibly, you know, at Palm Springs, 1950, before this treaty, you know, you say
five crafts showed up.
There's another story called, you know, Holman Air Force Base, where there's a
landing and there's a possible interaction between, you know, some generals on
the base and these tall beings, but they seem to actually have like almost
pharaonic Egyptian headdress.
And this video, I think, was promised at one point to Rod Serling and Bob
Emmenager, who made UFOs past, present, and future.
And the video never came, but I've spoken to, you know, some pretty interesting
people in the UFO whistleblower world who do stand by that account, that that
was like a real meeting. Do you think that that happened?
And was it a Tollowite that came out of the craft at Holman Air Force Base?
[1:57:26] Charles Hall:
I'll maintain my policy of never commenting on other people's stories.
And the reason, the reason is because my books are based totally on my own
experience. Yep.
And it's not based on anything I've read or any, they're not based on any
classified material. I was never part of any project.
They're based on what, when you say, what was life for me? Yeah.
And what I'm trying to do in my books, one of the major things I'm trying to do
in my books is I'm trying to tell my grandkids how it was for me.
And I'm trying to point out to them that when you're personally dealing with the
extraterrestrials, you feel differently than when you're personally dealing with
your guardian angels.
Your guardian angels are like brothers who love you, there's never any fear.
It's true. the sensation that your guardian angels are there with you.
And because each of us, I believe, has two guardian angels, at least, who are
always with us and have nothing else to do but keep track of each one of us.
And I get so frustrated when I see so many humans who mean well trying to
confuse guardian angels and what God and love and the guardian angels are doing
with what the biological entities who are extraterrestrials are doing.
And so, and that's what I'm trying to do in my book.
I'm not trying to, I don't care what the government wants to classify, that's
fine with me.
If they want to classify the recipe for Hershey candy bars and say, you know,
you can have one, Charlie, but don't tell anybody,
[1:59:25] Host/Interviewer:
you know. Do you miss the tall whites?
Do you feel an emotional affection towards them?
You said that you and Range 4 Harry were like brothers.
Do you ever think, hey, maybe I could contact Range 4 Harry or go back and speak
to him, go back to the range, to Nellis?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[1:59:46] Charles Hall:
Well, let's say if I were out in the desert, let's say out by Dale here in New
Mexico, which is one of the tall white playgrounds.
Let's say if I ever went out or were out there and let's say I happened to see
them.
If I were to just say, well, I just wanted to, you know, monkey around and see
you or, you know, whatever, well, that they might say, well, now you've seen us
and so go on about their business.
See, they're very goal oriented, even though they like us.
And it's not that they're being rude.
It's because, remember, the teacher in 1965 who had been born when George
Washington was born, when she was playing with Hornie, she was over at Range 2
that Sunday with her daughter, who she called The Butterfly, and the little
white girl that she wanted to be friends with her little, with her daughter
because the little girls could be friends, she was standing there on the side in
a very now they were playing on the skip bomb area and the two the two boys were
playing also she was standing a little ways away from him on the higher ground
slightly higher ground she was very nostalgic remembering her childhood where
she played on the same piece of ground with a little native american girl who
was equivalent to her age five years old at the time but her memories of that
little indian native american girl that was her very best friend at the time in
the time because they lived 10 times longer than we do in the time that passed
while she went from equivalently being say in the fourth grade to the seventh
grade for us those are just a few years and that equivalent time the native the
native american little girl grew to adulthood got married had children went
through her entire life cycle and died of old age just in the time the teacher
had gone through the equivalent lifestyle of from the fourth grade to the
seventh grade do
[2:02:18] Host/Interviewer:
you think they feel a fondness for humans like
[2:02:21] Charles Hall:
they do they do but on the other hand from their point of view you know i'm 80
years old right now you know i'll be dead and what for them is the blink of an
eye i don't know even if i live to be 100 i'll you know it's just two more i
only have two more years to live so from their point of view if i say we're out
there at my age they would you you they might then they might i mean they're
friends but you have to remember that socializing and being friends for them
with humans is a little bit like us being friends and socializing with say a dog
in its old age that we may not have seen for five or ten years
[2:03:19] Host/Interviewer:
there's a guy at nasa who has a deep interest in uh these sorts of things
experiencers uh his name is timothy taylor have you heard of him by any chance
um
[2:03:30] Unknown Guest:
timothy taylor
[2:03:31] Host/Interviewer:
yeah oh
[2:03:33] Unknown Guest:
he's a good friend of ours
[2:03:35] Host/Interviewer:
oh so you know you know timothy taylor tim taylor this is one of those
characters where well if you know you know but if you don't there's probably a
reason why the mood shifted here folks tim taylor was a nasa engineer who became
a biotech entrepreneur and according to diana pasulka's book american cosmic
where he appeared under the pseudonym tyler d has remained actively involved in
operations for nasa up until today pasulka paints taylor as an enigmatic figure
who led her and stanford microbiologist gary nolan to a ufo crash site in new
mexico by many he's considered a gatekeeper well connected with access to crash
retrieval secrets as well as personally receiving what he termed downloads of
information from otherworldly sources he claimed these downloads were
facilitated by protocols he engaged in protocols that were used to track down
the use of CATTHALs that allowed him to communicate with non-human intelligences
in pasulka's book taylor undergoes a profound conversion in the vatican archives
blending technology and the phenomena in what became a personal revelation
[2:04:44] SPEAKER_02:
and then he he decided to converse but also what happens is he changes his idea
of what these things are that he's feeling he's getting signals from because
we're studying Saints who had these experiences and he was thinking that they're
more in line with what they were you know in in each other's lives experiencing.
[2:05:02] Host/Interviewer:
And outside of her account, super experiencer Chris Bledsoe's memoir openly
names Taylor as a NASA insider who befriended him after his encounters.
Sometimes Taylor would bring other scientists or officials to witness Bledsoe's
experiences.
I myself was briefly in contact with Taylor and I'm not sure what to make of
him.
And even though I was shocked that his name came up in this conversation, I
wasn't necessarily surprised.
The deeper cut on Tim Taylor is that he himself is some sort of time traveler,
part of a secret program adjusting timelines. This doesn't come from me.
Perhaps my favorite figure, aerospace engineer and anti-gravity inventor Thomas
Townsend Brown, is connected with Tim Taylor.
This is where the story gets weird.
Thomas Townsend Brown was obsessed with anti-gravity, but gravity and time have
a tight relationship in general relativity. This is just standard physics.
So the subplot of his great biography by Paul Shatskin, The Man Who Made the
Moon, Mastered Gravity, is that Townsend Brown was obsessed with time travel.
He would talk about it constantly with his friends and family.
Apparently, Tim Taylor told Ryan Bledsoe, Chris Bledsoe's son, that he was part
of a secret group in NASA in the Bahamas that dealt with time travel.
I would dismiss this out of hand entirely, but there are some even more
interesting connections between Townsend Brown and Tim Taylor.
There's an Amazon review that Townsend Brown's daughter wrote on Tim Taylor's
book, The Man Who Made the Moon, that says, In that biography, Tim Taylor talks
about his time traveling back and forth to the Bahamas.
He spent a lot of time in NASA. Townsend Brown also spent a ton of time in NASA.
In fact, his biographer, Paul Shatskin, even coined a term for a secret group
that used to meet there.
It was called the NASA group, and it included the elite of the elite,
industrialists like Eldridge Reeves Johnson.
And even the inspiration for James Bond in Churchill's Super Spy, William
Stevenson, who helped form the CIA.
So maybe Tim and Townsend are part of a secret time travel group. Who knows?
But it is interesting that Taylor seems to consistently pop up around very
important experiencers in the United States. Now back to our conversation.
How did you guys originally meet Tim Taylor?
He's sort of this very interesting figure, you know, works with NASA, and he's
very interested.
[2:07:25] Unknown Guest:
He came here because he found out about Charles.
And that was when his daughter, the one who had the baby, was like, what was
she, maybe in fifth grade when they came the first
[2:07:39] Charles Hall:
time?
[2:07:41] Unknown Guest:
Yeah, we...
[2:07:42] Host/Interviewer:
Why do you think he was, he became interested in your story?
[2:07:46] Charles Hall:
My wife can answer all the
[2:07:48] Unknown Guest:
questions.
Because he realized that as far as he was concerned that Charles was, the real
article was legitimate. And... And...
[2:07:59] UNKNOWN:
And...
[2:08:00] Unknown Guest:
And...
And as I say, it's really concerned me because I've tried to email other people,
because he brought other people to meet us and visit with us.
They, they, one of the guys cooked right here in my kitchen.
And so I tried to contact those people because I had emails for them.
And I never got a response about what happened to him.
[2:08:27] SPEAKER_04:
Who did he bring?
[2:08:29] Unknown Guest:
Let me see. King. King. David King, wasn't that his name?
And doc, what was the, what was the doctor that was, I think I still have the
emails. But he brought lots of people here. And, oh, brought them to Las Vegas.
[2:08:51] Host/Interviewer:
Kit Green, Dr. Kit Green, maybe? No?
[2:08:54] Unknown Guest:
We were at Green's house, I believe. At Kit Green? He flew, he flew us to...
Your
[2:09:00] Charles Hall:
house?
[2:09:01] Unknown Guest:
Atlanta. Atlanta. Yeah. And had us meet the, oh, what was their last name?
No, I can't remember.
[2:09:09] Charles Hall:
I know who you mean, honey, but I don't remember their last name either.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:09:12] Unknown Guest:
But yeah, we met all his friends. Well, Tim Taylor's friends.
They had a whole house full of people and entertained us.
[2:09:19] Host/Interviewer:
Interesting.
What did you get the sense, did they just want to learn or did they, what do
[2:09:25] Unknown Guest:
you think their goal was?
[2:09:27] Host/Interviewer:
Hmm.
[2:09:28] Unknown Guest:
But because he introduced them to us.
[2:09:33] Host/Interviewer:
What did you get the sense of like his job at NASA?
Do you, do you know what he does?
[2:09:37] Unknown Guest:
He said that he was no longer involved, that he went into business for himself
and he would, oh, that's the interesting story.
He'd been all over to the various Air Force bases, et cetera, but he'd never
been to Creech before. And so when he came back from Creech the first time.
He said, he thought that Charles underplayed the strangeness that was going on
there.
He said they were there for a ribbon cutting ceremony and he was standing right
next to a friend of his.
Oh, there were no lower ranking people, just all officers.
And he said to the guy, do you mind if I just drive up the road, you know, a
mile or two, I won't get out of the car.
And the guy said, oh, that would be a very bad idea.
And then just that quickly, he said, I'm so glad you could make it for this.
You know, like I didn't say what I just said.
And, uh, yeah, so he, he was really even more, um, impressed with, uh, Charles,
uh, account after he finally got the chance to visit Creech for the first time.
[2:11:02] Host/Interviewer:
Did he ever say where his interest? And ETS came from?
[2:11:06] Unknown Guest:
I don't remember that he said that. No,
[2:11:10] Charles Hall:
there were many things that we never talked about his work or things of that
nature.
And, uh, and, um, we also never talked about projects that he was associated
with or anything like that.
[2:11:24] Host/Interviewer:
Did he ever ask you about your hall photon theory?
[2:11:28] Charles Hall:
Um,
[2:11:29] Host/Interviewer:
yeah,
[2:11:30] Unknown Guest:
but we talked about it, but he was interested in buying. Uh-huh.
A house and moving out here.
[2:11:37] Host/Interviewer:
He, he seems to pop in what, when, um,
[2:11:40] Unknown Guest:
well,
[2:11:41] Host/Interviewer:
experiencers have anomalous experiences with,
[2:11:44] Unknown Guest:
we never had any trouble getting in touch with him.
And as I say, we, the last contact we had was just when he said, you know, he
was looking forward to being a grandfather. And that was it.
He just disappeared. We never heard from him since. I've
[2:11:59] Host/Interviewer:
heard that from numerous people. He did that. I mean,
[2:12:02] SPEAKER_04:
I didn't, I
[2:12:03] Host/Interviewer:
had, I had very intermittent.
Correspondence with him, but he dropped off on me close to Chris blood.
So a bunch of other people, so
[2:12:10] Unknown Guest:
it's just that ours went on for so many years.
[2:12:12] SPEAKER_04:
Yeah. You said 15 years.
[2:12:14] Unknown Guest:
I think so. Yeah. Wow.
[2:12:16] SPEAKER_04:
Wow. It's so strange that he would just not contact you after 15 years though.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:12:21] Unknown Guest:
Yeah.
I, I mean, we, we shared a lot of really personal things and, you know, of
course he converted, converted to Catholicism. Yeah. Yeah.
[2:12:33] Host/Interviewer:
Recently. And what? And. In 20, like 15, 16 ish,
[2:12:39] Unknown Guest:
something like that
[2:12:40] Host/Interviewer:
during his trip to the Vatican. Yeah.
[2:12:41] Unknown Guest:
And he'd been, he'd been to Rome several times after that. So, yeah. Do
[2:12:48] Host/Interviewer:
you think when he went to the Vatican archives, he experienced anything around
the ET topic, any confirmation of, of, of that?
[2:12:56] Unknown Guest:
I have no idea, but when Charles and I went to Rome for the first time in 2000,
what was that? I think it was in 2005, six, something around there.
Um, I took the first three books as a presentation for Pope Benedict and, uh, a
couple, you know, like two months later when we were home, we actually got a
thank you note from Pope Benedict.
[2:13:24] SPEAKER_04:
Really? Yeah. That's amazing.
[2:13:26] Unknown Guest:
I, we put, uh, I think we Xeroxed it and put it in the, in book four, maybe.
[2:13:34] Host/Interviewer:
Wow.
[2:13:34] Unknown Guest:
Yeah.
[2:13:35] Host/Interviewer:
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'd love to see
[2:13:36] Unknown Guest:
the thank you
[2:13:37] Host/Interviewer:
note. That'd be amazing. Oh, it's in book four. Okay. Yeah.
[2:13:40] Unknown Guest:
That's
[2:13:40] Host/Interviewer:
awesome.
[2:13:40] SPEAKER_04:
Do you believe that Timothy Taylor has ever met an extraterrestrial?
[2:13:46] Unknown Guest:
He certainly didn't say anything about meeting one.
[2:13:49] SPEAKER_04:
Or has he shared any personal sightings that he's ever had?
[2:13:52] Unknown Guest:
No,
[2:13:52] SPEAKER_04:
but maybe the fact
[2:13:54] Unknown Guest:
that he disappeared, maybe, maybe he went off with them somewhere. I don't know.
[2:13:59] Charles Hall:
One night I was out in range three and a group of new arrivals.
It was after the full moon, a week or so, and as usual, a group of the guards,
the permanent, the permanently assigned tall white guards at the base, at the
base, at the base up at the north end of Indian Springs Valley brought down a,
they were using the, the, the tourist model scout craft, which had seating for
like two dozen, and they brought it down, brought them down to the, to the range
three.
The area, so they could see me, the first human that any of those tall whites
had ever seen. And while I was there, they, they came in too close.
I expect them being new people to stop at least at a quarter mile, which was
more common, but they kept coming in cuz they were assured that I was a nice guy
until they were as close as you guys are. Well, this was new.
The guard was in position. The, this was when I was still new and still.
Not completely at ease being around him.
And since the new people are armed too, that meant that, you know, I, I was
somewhat intimidated and what, there was an older lady or a middle-aged lady.
And, and I was at my stand, I was tracking the balloon.
And so I, I said, well, so I just turned to him and I said, looked at him and I
just said, I'm feeling a little scared and, you know, so I'm just gonna put my
stuff here and I'm gonna go.
Into base and you guys can stay and look around and do whatever you want and
have fun.
And then I backed away and I went walking, not running key point, walking to my
truck that was parked some distance away on the other side of my, the generator
shack.
And as I was walking, this middle-aged lady said to the guard, she was kind of
surprised. She said, we didn't do anything wrong. Did we?
I mean, you know, we didn't. And, and the, you know. What's he like?
And the guard proceeded to tell the group what they thought I was like.
The guard said, and I quote, well, he seems to talk more than most humans.
And he seems to eat a lot more than most humans and us, but you know, you don't
worry if you say, and he scares a lot more easily than most humans, but see,
he's different. He just goes in and talks and eats.
And then he comes right back out. The others. Once we fried.
Them would never come back and might not eat again for a couple of days.
And they were all laughing. So just wait here. He'll be back out after lunch.
Just give him time to eat and talk to some of the other guys.
He'll be right back.
[2:16:46] Unknown Guest:
Wow.
[2:16:47] Charles Hall:
You know, well, I think that's what they thought of me, you know, that

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[2:16:50] Unknown Guest:
encapsulates how
[2:16:51] Charles Hall:
I wasn't braver than the other guys.
I scared easier, but just let me eat and talk for a while. I'll get over it.
Well, that
[2:16:58] Host/Interviewer:
encapsulates, I think you and how special you are because it, it shows in the,
um, documentary that Emil made as well.
We're like, initially you are scared and you don't know what to do.
And I think most people would have a reflexive allergic reaction and kind of run
away. And your reaction is just, just kind of,
[2:17:15] Charles Hall:
I know 41 men that would agree with you if, if the, not all of them are still
alive.
[2:17:21] Host/Interviewer:
Right. Oh, oh, interesting. So 41 men who were, had nervous breakdowns.
[2:17:27] Charles Hall:
Set out before me and came back, came back compromised.
[2:17:33] Host/Interviewer:
Compromised meaning mentally. Really unstable.
[2:17:37] Charles Hall:
Mm, some of them, but some of them just wouldn't go out there again.
Just, well, the one, the guy before me had deserted, but the one I remember, the
one I always felt sorry, it's the one I described in my book.
He was the one that was out at range four one night.
And when they first sent him out there and the tall whites came in the, and I'll
use my words, not his, the tall whites came in the high speed horse formation.
And they came from the Northwest mountains, the point you're in Indian Springs
amount to the north and Northwest.
He came down and they were coming across the dry lake bed at range four and they
were very close to where, and he was, he was at the weather station of range
four and he couldn't believe they were real cuz they were floating.
And when he, so he went out there and surprised him and he got too close to him.
Cuz they still had their suits.
powered up, and they were still in the high-speed horse formation, and he got
too close to them.
And the suits, which put out radioactive particles, and you could see them, when
they were turned up high enough, they would sparkle.
You could see the alpha particles and the beta particles coming out, and the
other particles.
You could actually see the decay chains coming off the suits, and the suit and
his shoulder almost touched one of the shoes.
And I saw his X-rays and pictures when I was at the Nellis-based hospital, and
the doctor himself said it looked like the wounds from the victims of the
Hiroshima blast, and it looked like his whole show, the meat, the fat,
everything had been cooked off.
[2:19:29] Unknown Guest:
Wow.
[2:19:30] Charles Hall:
Yeah, it had been cooked off. The bone was exploited.
He just barely made it back to base alive.
[2:19:38] Host/Interviewer:
Did you ever experience any radiation damage due to interactions with them?
[2:19:44] Charles Hall:
No, not that I'm aware of.
And part of the reason was because you could see the fluorescent, if they had
their suits turned up high enough, you could see the radioactive decay
particles.
And of course, I recognized them immediately as radioactive decay particles,
because in those days, in the early 90s... This was in 1965.
Well, see, in the early 1950s, you could still get radium paint and put it on
your watch or your toys.
And if you had a magnifying glass and you went into a very dark room and waited
like 45 or 50 minutes for your eyes to perfectly adjust to the darkness and used
a magnifying glass, you could actually see the subatomic particles come off
[2:20:36] UNKNOWN:
the
[2:20:36] Charles Hall:
surface.
The radium paint, the alpha particles, the beta particles, the gamma rays.
And see, so when I saw those coming off the suits of the tall whites out in the
desert, I knew perfectly well what they were.
I was surprised by how big the tracks were and how far they carried.
When it came off from radium paint, the tracks would be coming off just a short
distance like that.
When you saw them out in the desert, they would be coming off distance.
Distances like that there. So those suits had a tremendous power.
[2:21:10] Host/Interviewer:
Charles, this has been an absolute honor. I appreciate your time, man.

================================================================================
END OF TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================

SPEAKER STATISTICS:
----------------------------------------
  Charles Hall:
    Words: 15,687 (74.2%)
    Turns: 121
  Host/Interviewer:
    Words: 4,334 (20.5%)
    Turns: 122
  Unknown Guest:
    Words: 778 (3.7%)
    Turns: 43
  SPEAKER_01:
    Words: 121 (0.6%)
    Turns: 1
  SPEAKER_00:
    Words: 97 (0.5%)
    Turns: 4
  SPEAKER_04:
    Words: 60 (0.3%)
    Turns: 11
  SPEAKER_02:
    Words: 57 (0.3%)
    Turns: 1
  UNKNOWN:
    Words: 18 (0.1%)
    Turns: 12

----------------------------------------
Generated: 2026-01-08 12:51:04
Tier: PREMIUM
Freelance Transcription Service (FT Pipeline)