In the third and final part of our interview with Matthew Brown, the author of the Immaculate  Constellation Report. The submission of this report onto the congressional record and its  announcement caught people by surprise. Its distribution was allegedly very tight and  these unelected members on these congressional staffs that get to set the agenda for our elected  leaders had to scramble and adjust in real time. They panicked. What I have learned is that  we live in a dream, a carefully constructed reality. We make use of a science that is  tightly controlled and suppressed and distorted. Who are they? Why are they here? Why don't they  show us what's going on? I think I have a good degree of confidence  that we're going to be able to do this. I think we're going to be able to do this.  The reason they're here is us. I think life, especially sentient life, is a precious thing.  And I think to some, it might be a resource. I think humanity to some level is a resource  for them. It's been a very painful, costly process to find allies, but I have them.  There's more of us. This doesn't stop. Right. You get to know some of these other  whistleblowers who are still...  Still not public yet.  Correct.  But who are at least close to coming forward.  Yes.  Is there a strength in numbers in that regard?  Yes. And if all of us die or are imprisoned, the seeds have been planted. More will come.  I fly out to California and I meet with Michael Schellenberger.  I told him, hey, I got a story for you. Would you like to chat with me?  Mm-hmm.  You know, I had met him previously, very briefly, totally something unrelated.  Yeah.  And his work on the Twitter files defending, you know, free speech against a very pervasive  and insidious censorship regime that our government, even before the Biden administration  had implemented, inspired me that he would do the right thing.  Logical, great choice. You know, that was my hope is to have a lot of journalists working  on this from different angles who you can trust, who are honest. So that's where your head's at?  Yeah. So we have a good meeting.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  This has been cleared by state. You know, you know, I would prefer to like maybe cut  it down because it's pretty long.  Right.  But you get to look at it. And are you interested? The answer is yes. We're going to do a story  that's in summer of 24, I believe, early summer, late spring. So with that in hand and knowing  that I had at least tapped to Sask and Sissy, thought it was okay to move forward with that  story and then try to, you know, you know, kind of get a hold of him.  to talk to house uh with you know the full details um in the meantime before that story came out  you know it takes time to vet things he has to look into me just you know find out who i am look  into the details of what i'm alleging you know i know that georgia i know the process well so it  takes months you know so i got some time and that time um i for the first time get connected with uh  david grush i've had a very enlightening conversation with him and at his suggestion  uh he connected me with with you um and that is how how we came to to meet yeah and i'm looking  not to report on what you're saying initially i'm looking to help you achieve the goal that  we're all fighting for which is getting the people asking for it the information this  doesn't have to be public it doesn't have to be a public display this is let's facilitate  these conversations that's where we started i'm not really doing journalism work with you i'm  trying to just help the process go that's how that was my headspace yeah  asking like i'm having a real hard time a meeting members themselves and b just even talking to  anybody in house who's the guy to go to and it was you okay so uh that was our the nature of our  meeting george and i have had a great relationship trying to help facilitate information knowledge  and human beings in for this sort of thing so it it makes sense it was a good move we did well  with david grush uh so george and i's our role oftentimes is to connect people we are reporters  is to break stories tell the news um but really a lot of what i was personally doing was trying to  facilitate help facilitate the process they're asking for um at that time we had had a great  hearing uh david grush uh also created a favor who had to beg to testify um it was great it was a  success everything was clean on that one on that hearing this was a new thing a new era it felt  different from the get-go but the idea was we're going to do this we're going to do this we're going  to have another set of hearings i'm all for that they tapped me to try to help connect them with  people and george and so we've had many calls through many process and and now i'm out there  to have meetings directly about first-hand people with first-hand experience who can directly  testify about this whether they talk publicly or not this is the information you need so i go to  have these established meetings you and i meet i do uh you know physically and we talk about it  and you want to come with me and i can bring you in and i can bring you in and i can bring you in  but i can't let them know because we're still trying to protect you trying to protect your  identity so it was kind of like we'll talk about it more in depth later but a kind of harrowing  experience you were very nervous i mean it was like you're exposing yourself in the in the you  know in those meetings absolutely right and just by walking into those offices or the buildings  those offices are in right right very public very public so we kind of hid you in the in the camera  crews the way i say it and that you were walking with us but but and getting into the buildings but  i asked each member i said okay you wanted direct people i have one here to speak with you everybody  needs to leave the room including the cameras it'll just be us is that cool and and each one  although they gave us wisdom along the way as we did our progression of getting you right in front  of people to give them your quick testimony and some documentation so that's what we went through  and we go in and there you are you're sitting in front of and you know somebody with position i  just want to know what did that feel like first of all that that moment where you got to finally get  to them uh i mean in the moment it just was somber serious um also you know nervous i got a i got like  you know it's five minutes but i only have probably like a minute to speak bro you were sweating you  were stressed i mean it was it was intense so getting yeah getting the most important  information across and also establishing my credibility as fast as possible  as possible uh and i was making sure you weren't a plant you know to be honest that was  part of the process is making sure he'd say the same thing to um you know to to congress that  to members that he said to me not that i didn't believe you and i had done the vetting and i  i i was there but i want to hear you say it show it so you're not trying to entrap me i mean  honestly that's part of my thing um man we got through that didn't we it did it worked well it did  come out of that thinking okay all right this is good i made contact i mean we'll see where it goes  mold yeah yeah pretty strong yeah i mean at this point in time i'm very uh actually my  skeptical is not the right word i do not believe did not believe that this would work in congress  but i knew that the attempt had to be made we had to try he had to try i knew that i alone wasn't  big enough or important enough to to shift the tides of history there to shift what apparently the  executive branch had decided which was we are going to squash this and anybody that tries to  bring it up we are going to uh you know silence cut outs and disparage they were asking for  whistleblowers and there we are and then he is blowing the whistle on this and that's what they  were asking for so for me it was a big win for them to meet you face to face because i knew down  the line if this is going to progress look you would have testified let's get real clear on this  they were asking for it  you would have testified you were not asking to testify you're saying here's the little piece  that i have but you you said in that room that you would if if requested i would if asked and i  did not want to do it at the upcoming hearing of course because that was very close and i in no way  felt ready to do that but you put the ball in their court i did said you would they didn't ask  right and we got to there's a whole thing about that but just you really put it out there i did  yeah okay i think um it'll take  quite a change in our present circumstances for anybody to ever testify under oath on this subject  again in a way that would make a difference i think uh they know the power of in in an open  hearing putting your hand on the bible and swearing that you're going to speak nothing  about the truth and doing so it's symbolic and it's very valuable and that is why i believe that  they are desperately attempting to deny well and that's true that's what we saw  uh you know we don't got to rehash it that's what we saw the second hearing absolutely controlled  uh representative burchett testified to it by saying it publicly that the executive branch um  did limit what could be said and by who and george has brought that up a bunch when you know so so i  agree executive branch in the halls of congress determining what the business of congress is and  not even through the courtesy of a phone call to the vice president of the president but through  minions and stooges  unelected probably cia yeah well certainly yeah would you when you hear about the lineup for the  hearing that was held you've got to be feeling pretty good about it oh yeah there's got to be  a witness he's going to talk about immaculate consolation and not just a witness on his own  next to uh lou elizondo tim gallaudet and this guy i've never heard of before but seems nice nick gold  or michael michael michael that's great they're thinking all right good all right it's going to  come out we're all punked did you know what exactly what was going to be discussed by the  old burger at that point yes i mean i knew it was going to be you know me and my words and my  report and because the two of you met with them the night before the hearing  well yeah and i mean i i met with michael to give him the story i seem like there's no mystery here  why they're bringing him yeah there was a lot before that too but um i mean i have a a two  plus month process of prompting trying to get something on congressional record knowing that  what your your testimony was valuable it wasn't just like spur of the moment there is a process  it was three major meetings that occurred to validate the information that um that you  provided to me it's not just like um so getting on something on congressional record is a little bit  uh more tricky than than people think they have to have time with it so i very slowly with your  authorization over those months had in-person meetings not just you being there but then  working with them showing them the information so they had time to vet it they're worried about  getting scammed too right so it was a process it was a process that for me was very arduous  personally there are a lot of phone conversations that we sat in on with uh house staff and um  and it got curiouser and curiouser as the the people who were in on these these conversations  with us on the other national security folks just popping in on a meeting that i'm supposed to be  having with them they you know they wanted to know what assets george and i have to  show them we were going to provide them they were saying at one point that we were going to  testify and i said cool and i want to give something substantial to the american public  this is what i want to give them well you know at some point they're trying to get us into a skiff  and my federal lawyer our federal lawyer said do not go in there because they will immediately  classify all that information that allegedly you may have access to and then you're never reporting  on it so we went through our own journey we don't have to get into that in this discussion but there  is a lot of stuff happening behind the scenes but hurrah hooray congressional record your report  which is misrepresented when nancy mays talked about a big time but we're happy we're happy and  i was stoked to have michael schellenberger who at that time i was like this is great he's going to  um be a good ally moving forward and he's the right man for the job yeah but bottom line um  no matter the shanagan's involved um and how revealing they're going to be they're going to be  kind of on a different level than the shanagan's and i think what we did in that second hearing was  about the control mechanisms in place about uap i was elated and i think so were you did without  having to put your face out to the public and endure all of that like you're doing and  getting experience now your testimony got put on a congressional record that was a big win  yeah there was a bit of a personal pleasure too we i at the very least got to see uh someone else be  scared for once who is scared not the bosses but the  when i was hoping you were going to be scared for one person but we didn't and but i think it must have been  even less uh but certainly just not the general public because i don't think i had a chance to say  the people who interfere in congress but the minions themselves because their bosses didn't  tell them what was going to happen can you dive a little deeper into that well by all appearances  both behind the scenes and in front of them uh the submission of this report onto the congressional  record and its announcement caught people by surprise its distribution was allegedly very tight  and these uh unelected members on these congressional staffs that get to set the agenda  for our elected leaders uh had to scramble and adjust in real time they panicked see having  something on congressional record is different than just putting out a news report news report  goes away one click done this is much bigger and i saw that too so i i it was a big move and it was  probably was  filled with pleasure to see it stirred up yes you know you've said it before and i want  to drill this home at one time saying these words putting these words in text saying them over the  phone there was repercussion for that at one time i understand it as i understand it as well but so  it gets published and i was stoked i remember that day i went on a new show and i was like  i had nothing i didn't do it somebody put it out i mean you let me know that it was going to be  public but i was like i was like stoked to hear those words mentioned  but getting it on record watching the tables turn was was filled with pleasure yeah no long-term  outcome but this is a fight without many wins so okay take the small personal pleasures as this  news travels is there a blowback do you suddenly realize hey something might happen to me as a  result of this getting out there you're happy that it's finally there on the record but then does  that change uh over the days or weeks afterward not so much um i was not definitely under  no illusions at this point nothing would functionally change but what mattered was  you know adding new fuel to the fire to look what looked like was a dying cause uh is there  blowback for you personally does anybody call you and say you shouldn't have done that or does  somebody figure out who you are is there an attempt to identify who you are i'm sure there  were attempts i'm sure some of them were successful but uh i mean i've been known to internal security  undoubtedly since almost day one you know here's the deal um people misunderstand because it was  misrepresented in congress this is not a pentagon paper a product yeah you are the author of what  the world knows as the immaculate constellation report this is a report based upon a field report  based upon your investigation what you've discovered trying to do the right thing  bringing it to the people that need to see it because it was so hard even though they're asking  to get it to him so just to be really clear for the fundamentally for people immaculate  constellation report what was submitted into congress onto congressional record which we  fought together to get that done is your words it's not some government pentagon report like  it was misrepresented by nancy mason congress not at all uh all my words um 100 authored by me  one of the striking things for me in kind of talking with you through this process plus  just reading the final report that went on to congressional record i mean you list and label  um cuboid formation of metallic orbs these are ufos right so fast mover observed transiting  over satellite or sorry sensitive facilities um intelligence vessels positioned to collect  on reproduction vehicle uh equilateral triangle uap tails unwitting vessel this one  struck me large disc using clouds as concealment and why that struck me is because george and i  have been exposed to a lot over the years and i i think i know and other people know what you're  referencing here it sounds like you watched a video you said on u.s government networks there  exist opir footage what is it overhead persistent infrared um that might be a correction that a  satellite may not have been an opr satellite after all but this one um and you keep  going on a boomerang shape jellyfish shaped uh you know tic-tac shape you're not just making  these words up like you saw visual evidence of these yeah and and so didn't have george nap and  i we have been exposed to um along the years a lot of visual evidence but this one the the large disc  um in the clouds just explain to me seeing something like that well number one it's pretty  striking because you're watching it from sphinx it's always cool to watch satellite feeds um  and that's just something the general public doesn't like  doesn't get to see um and then two just the size of it it was immediately like well what the hell  is that it was in i assume infrared uh either yeah black hot for that one uh so the white clouds  around it and yeah it's almost playful in its activities or like it was startled um but it's  one of those cases where i look at it and you know it looks like a flying saucer but it might  be one of the things that maybe that was actually one of the things that i was thinking about  of ours um in the wrong place at the wrong time what do you mean it looks startled what does that  mean you know it's just looking at an area over the ocean is what it appears and this thing just  comes trundling along uh like underneath the cloud cover comes up and then right when it's like  almost center frame it scoots off to the side and like tries to get out of like it comes into a  going oops i'm being somebody spotted me i can get out exactly that it was visibly that's  the the feeling it had that that was that was kind of haunting to me i checked we checked  when we were with some friends recently um i never know we are not qualified to know if some of the  things we've been exposed to are legitimate or not but when i get confirmations like you describing  this and other people we've just recently talked to i know that footage exists we've been exposed  to it and um i think that that's a nice piece to the puzzle for the public um what about jellyfish  yeah so i mean i only heard that term  once it was released uh similar stuff i had seen on the inside and it was often labeled like a  floating brain or uh an organic or irregular shape so that's why it's in there um so yeah  i've seen multiple instances of instances of irregular shaped things that look thematically  similar to the jellyfish um i've never seen the jellyfish video itself um you know but seeing  those uh you know there's  instance of their one in south com uh right at our border crossing what appears to be uh  into united states airspace um let me get undetected from mexico i i believe from one  way or another i i can't recall the compass orientation right now but i would assume into  the u.s which is why it was interesting uh yeah let me get clear in a couple of days well first  of all you know people like yourself you get it's happened with lazar happened with greg like every  word you say you know you're worried about if your memory is not going to be the same as the  perfect this way you've done a great job of really curating making sure what you said is  accurate it's okay to make a mistake it's okay to like not remember the exact equipment that  did this or that in your brain just so um so you're saying the word jellyfish you first heard  kind of when george and i released that thing into the public media jellyfish although it was  described differently for different assets you've seen on servers that yeah yeah yeah that term  was describing something i had seen before okay okay is it but we just called the jellyfish  because that's what it was told to us they had two spaghetti monster was our other option it was  said a jellyfish works but um that morphology or shape is something that uh consistently you had  seen within these uh classified servers yes in other contexts outside of the middle east okay  you ever see any any videos where we're engaging with them either we're chasing them our warplanes  or something are going after a disc a saucer a norb or something like that so i've seen videos  and read reports of the jellyfish and i've seen videos of the jellyfish and i've seen videos of the  engagements uh but not live like we're not shooting them but engagements where you know  either we are trying to intercept something um read lots of reports on that and from other  countries as well trying to intercept these things um you know each report will have its  own shape that they're chasing but guess what they are uh but then yeah uh uh when there's an  example in there uh off the east coast uh what would be classed as a jellyfish and what would  be classed as an engagement where we're up there protecting our airspace and uh encountering these  things and interacting with them in uh in a way that we would consider hostile and if it was if  it was anything else you know if we had a russian bomber patrol that had a fighter escort and they  tried to box our fighters out force them down from the wash the the jet wash you know that would be  a hostile engagement um but for whatever reason uh you know we're not describing it that way  internally  so we're sending a plane up to take a look yeah maybe get a better look or even some imagery  but not to engage meaning shoot it down shoot a sidewinder at it or something right i would  you know i'm not going to be able to say that's never happened but i have i've not seen them  engaged uh yeah with weapons well it recently happened and we became aware of one um more  details on that i think we'll report on and what happened was the missile quote bounced  off and so they're trying to figure that out but uh you know what does that imply like a field  around it i don't know we also released one that was so embarrassing to release we we had to call  it looked like kermit the frog i think we called it syria dome uap but the reason we released it  because verified we uh tried to engage it we tried to shoot it and i i believe we we hit it but we  don't know the aftermath or what happened to that we reported on that is actual information even  though it looks so silly we had to report it because uap so from the recent event to that it  brings me back to what you said about the uap and the uap and the uap and the uap and the uap and the  said george about the official orders back in russia back in the day tell me that real quick  again so the russian military then from 78 to 88 they had a standing order uh for the any every  unit in this vast soviet military empire any ufo or ball of light flying saucer anything weird in  the sky it had to all be investigated and the guy who was in charge of that program at the ministry  of defense said that there had been several dozen instances where they sent planes  warplanes to intercept these ufos and they mostly they couldn't keep up with them they just poop  they're gone but in three cases they tried to engage and shoot them down three cases where  those planes the russian warplanes crashed two of the pilots died and after the second pilot died  they issued an order leave them alone because in the words of the the commander of the russian air  force they said they have incredible capacities for retaliation so why so many shapes why do you  think so many shapes i used to think fly saucers were discs i used to think ufos were fly saucers  that's what i used to think now after knowing this guy for so long reading all the reports  getting whistleblowers talking with him why so many shoots i think part of it's um sometimes  these might be you know made to purpose uh so you know if they're only making it for a specific use  case scenario they'll design it to excel on that mission i guess not another we do absolutely  have bombers that look a certain way and then we have reconnaissance vehicles that look another way  star wars they have giant cruisers and they have the x fighters over different jobs would you be  surprised to hear about cases where these things large objects come out of the ocean or go back  into the ocean does that sound familiar i would not be surprised i i have not seen very large  objects go in and out of the water but i've definitely seen small to medium-sized uaps  either going into the water and disappearing or  going in and out or coming out of the water fact fact and on video and described uh  there's a video and described uh any kind of change of inertia or multiple videos any kind of  we have also been exposed to some um let me ask you this any change of like any inertial effect  any change of speed or motion that's like the water wasn't there it's like the gold for anybody  wants to see i wonder if it's ever enough like is video ever enough like what is enough for  people to wrap their heads that there's a real issue here i don't know i don't think one video  is ever going to change i want to talk to you about signals intelligence signet right that was  a big part of your investigation can you explain that and why yeah so it was one of the sources  where uh you know we have a fantastic intelligent posture uh it's not as data heavy so there's just  it's just much easier to to move around and and access and read through quickly now it's one of  the shortest sections in there because uh in in my mind you know those are these are incidental  collections right yeah i'm sure we are specifically collecting signals intelligence on this  but my uh research was not in those uh sort of data streams that majority is  um accidental kind of capturing exactly from of other countries other militaries  related to this and their observations related to this or sometimes historic things that we  acquire that happen to pop up in those in the sigint channels um yeah so the reason there's  less detail there though is we're using those every day we rely on them a lot and  they're very fragile very sensitive and diplomatically sensitive as well  the things you're describing that you'd seen that are in this report are mostly things that are  there's in the pacific and the atlantic there's over africa  they're foreign things something coming over the border from mexico what about cases in the u.s  is is norad is that just a black hole for these kind of images it's so something that happens  over our country you don't even get to see it yeah northcom is a black hole you need i mean  just legislatively there's there's legal things keeping us the military and the ic supposedly  from from looking at the states that's supposed to be a domestic law enforcement  mission in general you gotta have a very good reason to be looking at the military and the ic  you know over your neighbor's fence basically this is a i think it's you know it's functionally  a bit a barrier to present prevent accidental or just curious people you know doing things  they shouldn't uh in our home in our homeland which would actually get them in trouble it's  one thing if we're doing it uh you know some foreign country is one thing if we're crossing  the line and spying uh here uh without a specific mission  we hear it from ufo world is i don't care about these blurry images these things are blurry the  tic-tac to me that was a fantastic image you know they're you're not sending a dave fravor up and  with an imax camera to make a movie these are captured on sensor systems the same as like  2019 the uss omaha pitch black 100 miles off the coast of southern california they're picking up  an image that they follow for an hour on a thermal camera they're they're blurry but they're amazing  images  i mean is there a reason that the public doesn't see um crystal clear movie quality images of ufos  yeah i think unfortunately it's um a product of our education system a lack of curiosity  in general about the world um there's a lot of arrogance in our academy and that arrogance  filters down to our citizens we know the world we haven't figured out there's nothing left to  discover here uh and i think in general there's so much  misinformation stigma mythology that people grow up with that lead them to just  automatically categorize any of this as as just uh you know false fake not real misidentified  well i mean getting an image on a thermal camera 100 miles out to sea in total blackness  is sounds pretty cool to me that sounds like an amazing accomplishment but is there a  are there additional reasons that have been maybe discussed by  anglicization or something like that i don't know i don't know i don't know i don't know i don't  those doors uh force fields of some sort around these um craft that make things blurry even for a  from a good camera image do you know probably a very uh real explanation for why certain shapes  you know are harder to observe than others um i think you know whether it's active camouflage and  like the skin of the vehicle itself that definitely seems to be in play or a field like you describe  um i've seen evidence of fields around crafts uh yeah some things we've seen have looked so bizarre  it makes no sense to my brain um it is possible we've heard that from a number of whistleblowers  at different levels that what you're seeing could just be a part of a greater structure you know  um so it could be something like that speculating we had this uh chinese balloon thing that  happened three different objects ufos three ufos shot down  in a couple of week period and then we we saw people use that uh the usual people in the media  world who bash this stuff who tried to blame it on the uap task force the reason we're not norad  is not looking for something like this because the uap task force confused the whole situation  it's as if norad would only look for things that look like planes bombers or missiles  so we didn't look for ufos um is it possible that we didn't look for ufos because it didn't  really look for ufos because it didn't look for ufos because it didn't look for ufos because it  wanted to find them or is it we were looking for ufos just the public and most of the government  never saw um we've always been seeing these things with things like radar so it's you know it's part  of standard operating procedures to to deny this and to not uh acknowledge it so we've been seeing  it we're just pretending not to see it absolutely our public institutions like the faa or um similar  in your even local context  it's uh not allowed to be discussed and there might even be technical measures in our in the  technology at this place that just prevents it from even popping up on a screen right you know  like tic tac so that happened for two or three weeks they could get a little glimpse of it on  these systems really sensitive advanced navy systems at the time and then poof it it fell  off at the uss omaha they had 12 or 14 of these things zipping in you'd see them on the radar  screen and then poof if they didn't  want to be seen we weren't seeing them i guess it could be that as part of an explanation if  they don't want to be detected on radar they have ways to avoid radar whoever they are yeah that's a  dangerous dynamic to have willful ignorance on our side um and their capability to at least  attempt to evade detection at any time on theirs um if we are so certain they are friendly why is  this a secret um i have one more yeah  drones so 60 minutes just did a big piece on drones langley air force base had these things  flying over it for 17 nights in a row stayed in new jersey for weeks at a time uh sensitive bases  restricted airspace at us uk bases in britain for days and days we can't track these things  coming in we can't track them when they leave we can't shoot them down we don't know where they're  from but don't worry they're just drones they're foreign surveillance drones give me your take on  that whole situation  well if you're a member of the public and you are still listening to cnn msnbc fox news  or reading new york times or the wall street journal all of that is controlled it's propaganda  it is shaping your life narrative um intentionally so uh as for the government reactions to that i  was very disappointed to see a continuation of the dismissal of these events by the trump and  administration's uh press secretary um i can guess why they decided despite the campaign promise to  immediately address that issue to not uh has to do with geopolitical situations we are currently  involved in and the fact that we are living through a constitutional crisis related to this  issue just seems to me that it is a worse thing to say these might be foreign surveillance drones  And there's not a damn thing we can do about it. We can't track them. We can't see them. We can't shoot them down. Then it is to say, these are genuine unknowns. It seems like they're unknowns, not just some drone that the Chinese are floating off of New Jersey.  Well, there's an infection in our security thinking, which is that, you know, we must, they're primacists. They must be on top. To admit weakness is to admit defeat. And to say you don't know what something is, a pretty big signal of weakness.  There's not much humility and a lot of arrogance driving, I think, these responses more so than any strategy.  Yeah, just, I want to defend footage real quick. I got three things. I want to defend footage. There's a lack of education about what people are seeing in thermal. So first of all, these are weapon systems. These aren't IMAX cameras.  But they're kind of better than an IMAX camera, because you can see in the fucking dark. So I think there's an education process. And we've been trying with our reporting to teach people, when you see something in thermal, what you're seeing is a heat signature. And that heat signature represents that shape of the heat.  Yeah.  It's just a, I think it's an education process. It has to come from curiosity. But people need to be told what they're seeing. It's new to a lot of people. It was new to me when I started seeing military videos for the first time. So in defense of grainy, bad footage, people just need to understand what they're seeing to understand the impact if they're curious enough.  Question, like, any country in this world could disclose, at this point, a major country with technological development could disclose, we are not alone in the universe.  There are others as visitors have been here a long time. Why? Why has everybody agreed to not say that to the public? Do you have any philosophies? Why?  I think in the West, this is the reaction. That's an important distinction. I cannot comment so much on why Russia or China have not addressed this in a different way than us. But I think in the West, and the Five Eyes Alliance and its subsidiaries, you know, there is...  There is a understanding, at least, that this is not talked about at official channels, especially if you're a small kid on the block. You don't speak out of turn. But it also points to, I think, the fact that this doesn't ultimately reside in the government anymore.  This is held in an illegal internationalist regime, some sort of...  International cabal of sorts, mix of corporate, military, political, intelligence, and criminal interests that have come together, and they have subverted us, and have taken this, and have made it the source of their wealth and power.  That's what I asked Matt. Dr. Edgar Mitchell told me in one of the last films before he died, he used very similar words.  Well, that doesn't make me feel good.  Yeah, well, he was sure of it.  You're a whistleblower, not a...  Sourced me and George. You know, you're a whistleblower. You know, I want to... We do want to help. I always hear whistleblowers are scared, and we know some people, the same people, but there's a lot that have come to us that you don't know. Are you scared? Are you scared now, coming forward? Are you scared?  I mean, it comes in waves.  Okay.  So, yes. But I make a conscious effort every day to not let fear rule my life and my deeds.  So, yes, I'm scared, but this is the right thing. It's the necessary thing. And I was raised right.  You think that by talking to us, it's possible that you might have some protection in that if somebody cuts your brake lines and you go off a cliff, at least there's going to be somebody looking into it and raise some hell about it.  You know, if that happens, don't try too hard. Focus on the mission.  So, this is more about people need to know than about your personal well-being.  Any regrets?  No.  I trusted too much, and I did not trust myself enough. I paid some prices, and I do not doubt that they're the seeds for future costs I'll have to pay in the future.  Describe for us the personal costs, the reality for you going forward, your outlook for ever working for the government again, for example, or with any kind of a job that returns.  Describe for us the personal costs, the reality for you going forward, your outlook for ever working for the government again, for example, or with any kind of a job that returns.  Describe for us the personal costs, the reality for you going forward, your outlook for ever working for the government again, for example, or with any kind of a job that returns.  It requires a security clearance, personal cost to your marriage, your personal life.  Well, with a job with government, my career is dead. It has been dead for years now. I have a file on me.  Even if I went back in, even if I chose to never do any of this and just keep working, I predict that I would have found my career stunted mysteriously as soon as it would have sought to.  Or I would have sought to advance into what I thought was a noble mission.  Personally, it's hard to describe.  You know that I've been doing this for about four years now.  Only very recently have I had anyone to talk to about it outside of like, you know, hey, can you make this meeting happen?  I've had no allies.  That has changed.  It's been a very painful, costly process to find allies, but I have them.  There's more of us.  This doesn't stop.  Right.  You've got to know some of these other whistleblowers who are still not public yet.  Correct.  But who are at least close to coming forward.  Yes.  Is there strength in numbers in that regard?  Yes. And if all of us die or are imprisoned, the seeds have been planted.  More will come.  Well, those seeds have been planted.  There's been a lot of talk about deaths in the whistleblower community.  Those stories circulate, I would imagine, pretty quickly among you and people you know.  Yeah, but I'm still here.  You think anybody has been killed because they knew too much on this topic?  Yes, I believe, and I think, and I could probably help someone else prove it, but lethal action has been taken against people that tried to get the truth out.  Or maybe we're just considered...  Wildcards.  Not able to be efficiently controlled.  No longer useful.  I think once you taste the darkness, you like using it.  They don't have to kill you.  They could just ready you some way.  Oh, yeah.  Manufacture something.  They asked you to come forward, and you even felt that you had a small piece to the puzzle, and you weren't even sure if it was worth it.  And then you do that.  And what you suffer as a consequence is against your career.  There's other things we're not saying that we suspect are related to you coming forward.  God, that's got to hurt, man.  That's got to be painful.  They've asked you to come forward, and you tried all the ways to do that.  We had to go to a little bit extreme measures to get the rest going.  It's got to be painful.  Yeah, it is.  I don't think it will stop being, although hopefully time is its own self.  I'd like to spend that time with my wife, my family, in a cell or in the ground.  But, you know...  This is bigger than me.  It's bigger than us.  This is the fate of our people.  And to me, I'm willing to pay that price.  Is it ironic you have to put your face out with us to protect yourself at this point?  That's what we're doing, right?  Yeah.  That's what we're doing.  This is absolutely what I did not want to do.  I can attest to that.  This is exactly what you did not want to do.  Correct.  Have you gamed it out in your head what happens next?  What will likely be, assuming we go forward with this interview and make it public,  and that right now we don't know that that's the case,  but when it comes out, if it comes out, what happens to you then?  What are the risks?  Well, gaming it out, there's more than me.  More will come.  I could say more if I wanted to.  Hopefully this rises to a level of public attention that,  in my opinion, demands it be addressed in a serious way.  I can't cause that alone.  Other people will, but more need to come.  And I think at this point, I'd like to say directly to the members of our military  and our intelligence community, the time is now where you must choose  whether you honor your oath or your orders.  And if you have courage, you already know the answer.  But for the rest of you, lead, follow, or get out of the way.  Get out of the way.  We know people are coming forward.  And we know we've recorded George and I with other people who will be coming forward.  You know, so you're not alone.  But you say you could say more.  Just explain that.  When I wrote this document, I've kind of given my state of mind and the measures I took to protect it.  I'm also, you know, familiar with ways that information can be extracted  that password.  Password.  Password.  Password.  Password.  Password.  Password.  Password and encryption don't matter.  So I didn't write everything down.  So there are other bullets left to fire if you needed to.  Yeah.  You know, talk about things getting lost in the shelf.  Well, I highly doubt many members of the public read 11 pages, much less the first.  But at the end, there's an interesting area.  People might notice that it's out of order, too.  Things are sequentially out of order.  There's missing sections.  And one of that last section says sensitive sources from mouth to ear.  We talked about keeping that in or how far to go with it.  What does that mean?  Well, exactly what it says.  Those words were only spoken from my mouth to another's ear.  What is it like to have absolute knowledge that not only UFOs are real, that we've been hiding that,  that our government has controlled that information away from the base human population,  and that there is another intelligence that is engaging humanity straight up?  What does that feel like, being one of the people that knows that and doesn't suspect that?  It's weird going to the supermarket.  Okay.  Even more, it's bizarre to work in government.  And see legions of people who have no clue about any of this,  and no clue that they are being deceived.  Why should people believe you?  I mean, I know, I know you, I know what we've been through,  but that's not public stuff to everybody, every step we've taken.  Why should people believe what you're saying?  I was there.  I saw it.  I spent years researching it.  If all that I'm consulting is passage material,  then we are engaged in a massive,  massive deception against our own military and intelligence community  that I was a victim of.  And it would have been on a scale that probably would have been its own news story.  Oh, absolutely.  Nonsensical madness.  Yeah.  So as a human being, why should people believe you?  Well, as a human being, I feel like I'm genuine,  putting myself out there,  sacrificing my future, my past,  and a lot of what I have now to do this for no gain.  And you're getting nothing from us.  We're just reporting because it's an important story.  And you're telling it because it's true.  Absolutely.  It is true.  And I can't think of anything more pressing for our nation to come to terms with  than the fact that we have been deceived  and our rights taken away to protect the privileges of an elite few.  You're not...  I am not going to...  I am not...  I am not going to live my life knowing that I could have helped  prevent another generation of America and humanity  from living in ignorance.  So let's just separate, you know, for our audience  and people kind of meeting you for the first time.  So there's certain stuff you were exposed to in an official capacity  that you've come to conclusion on  and that you know to be correct, know to be true.  Then there are extrapolations and philosophies and ideas  from other types of sourcing of information.  And we can talk about that kind of in a separate realm.  And I value your opinion.  I think people will too because of your exposure  to certain things you're saying and not saying.  Okay.  But if we're talking just about our ideas now.  You have thoughts about big picture stuff, who they are.  Is it more than one they?  Is it us from the future?  ETs, interdimensionals?  Do you think there's anybody in government who knows?  And if they do know,  is there any...  Is there any reason why this should stay a secret?  At least some of it should stay secret  that the public cannot handle?  No.  The only reason for secrecy is fear and greed.  And that is the paradigm that we must confront and overcome.  As for the public and what their reaction might be  to this information, good, bad, indifference.  I think we already have our answer.  It's going to be indifference.  Mm-hmm.  Unless the...  The stakes are made clear.  You're an absolutist.  You, like, ripped the Band-Aid off.  There's no Band-Aid.  There's no wound.  Mm-hmm.  This is not about protecting, healing.  This is about power and control.  This isn't about trying to save what's good.  It's about getting rid of what's evil.  Power and control meaning controlling the technology  and what it would mean?  Those are just means.  Controlling humanity.  Everything.  Do you suspect that there are reverse engineering programs  or there have been crashes,  that there are attempts to replicate that technology?  You got hints of it in the ARV, our RV,  that we're trying to build what these things can do.  Do you think we've done it, that we've accomplished it?  Somebody?  Yeah, I think we've absolutely replicated  some of these capabilities in inferior forms  and oftentimes maybe disaggregated,  from what was at once a unitary system,  but we're only able to do a small part of what that system does.  We've seen people say they think that the Tic Tac is something we had 21 years ago.  Mm-hmm.  And I'm wondering, well, where the hell is it?  I mean, if we have this technology, we've done some of it to get even inferior versions of it.  Is that something that's going to be incorporated into the U.S. military arsenal,  or is it something that's outside of it that's controlled by somebody who's not using it for national defense?  I think the U.S. military might be allowed to use some of this technology in the national defense,  but I don't think they ultimately have control over it.  You know, this is a kind of arms race.  It's a technology race.  Whoever gains the ability to effectively weaponize this, they win.  We know that UFOs, due to the propulsion systems,  are a matter of national security,  and weapons of mass destruction.  And we know that.  We don't think that.  We've met with people that deal with that, right?  Do you agree with that?  Do you think that this is, we are in a race with China and Russia,  there's other countries competing to weaponize this,  and do you think that's a problem?  Because you've dealt with weapons of mass destruction in your official career.  I think deterrence, strategic deterrence,  has migrated out of...  sorry, has evolved from being...  relying on nuclear weapons as the pinnacle.  I believe we have, and others,  have developed the means to maybe utilize nuclear reactions  to create some very dangerous effects through directed energy.  Your concern is directed energy weaponry?  Among many.  Among many.  But when it comes to WSF,  when it comes to WMDs and relations to this technology,  I think we have been successful in both deriving new science  that we have then suppressed to preserve a strategic advantage.  And I think I probably don't want to talk too much more about deterrence.  Somebody was flying these things that crashed.  Somebody built these things that are being reverse engineered.  Who's that somebody?  And why don't they come forward?  I mean, you may not have seen that in a document or a file or something somewhere,  but you've thought about it.  You're a smart guy.  What are your thoughts on the big picture questions?  Who are they?  Why are they here?  Why don't they show us what's going on?  I think I have a good degree of confidence that the reason they're here is us.  I think life, especially sentient life,  is a precious thing.  And I think to some, it might be a resource.  I think humanity to some level is a resource for them.  Like a commodity?  Possibly a commodity.  Possibly a form of entertainment.  Possibly medical related.  Think they live here?  Yes.  For all intents and purposes?  Yes.  Always?  I don't know about always,  but it certainly appears that they have been here for,  for most of recorded history.  At least some element of this has been here for most of human recorded history.  You think we would see them if they didn't let us see them?  Even with our more advanced sensors that they pop up,  but they can also disappear.  And do they allow us to get these limpses?  Is that a game of some sort, I wonder?  Or an education process?  It's a bizarre one that I could not understand if it is a game.  I think they're both just as powerful as we think,  but also less.  And I think there is,  there is not a single they here.  Multiple?  Multiple.  Certainly multiple factions of the same species,  if not multiple species.  And all the complexity that brings,  which might be our best hope.  Do they have an agenda?  There's different types.  You know, what are your philosophies on this?  Like, who are the others?  Why are they here?  And you've touched upon it, I know.  We're kind of going back a little bit,  but that is the big question.  I just wanted to separate,  so people understand your exposure  and your personal conclusions.  So I have been exposed to no direct information  on the anatomy, biology, intentions, culture, politics.  Never came across those files?  Never came across those.  I think those are all some of the deepest secrets.  Right.  They would be if this is correct information.  Mm-hmm.  What I have learned is that we live in a dream,  a carefully constructed reality.  We make use of a science that is tightly controlled  and suppressed and distorted.  I think we are left behind.  Humans.  I think normies, the normal humans,  the people have been left behind.  Us.  Us.  Mm-hmm.  We need to understand  that we might have freedom of speech,  but that has been subverted.  We do not have freedom of inquiry.  We are blocked from learning what we need to know.  Just in the public world,  we are blocked from advancing in science.  We are taught false science intentionally  to prevent us from learning more.  We live in the matrix.  It's just much more boring than the movie.  I think about whistleblowers.  Like yourself, you're about to find out,  assuming we release this,  you're about to find out what the price is for coming forward.  And there are other people in the same kind of position  who are wondering what they should do,  who are basically being held in limbo.  They've worked in classified programs their whole life.  That's what they do.  That's what pays their bills.  And they're held in limbo and that's held over their heads  so they don't come forward.  And they're debating taking the same steps as you.  There is no hope.  There's no hope or help for anything like folks like that, is there?  I mean, we've heard promises.  We'll help whistleblowers come forward.  We'll give them support.  There are private equity funds  and organizations that say they're going to help.  But we haven't seen shit so far, have we?  And have you?  No.  I've reached out directly to institutions  that claim that they are here to help UAP whistleblowers specifically,  both in the process of coming forward  and any sort of stability afterwards.  It's been radio silence at best, at worst.  One of those institutions has stolen my information.  There is no organized help for whistleblowers.  It is all controlled.  It is all at either the special interest of industry  that wants to get in on this  or by the existing powers that be.  Intelligence agencies who have infiltrated or created these things.  Correct.  I have directly experienced that, sadly,  over this last year,  which is the vacuuming up of intelligence  on people such as yourself  who are trying to do the right thing as whistleblowers,  as well as anything that reporters could possibly obtain and release.  And it is a treacherous moment in our history of this.  You did a call to action to people.  You told them, it's time.  Move forward.  I know that you had some encouragement with David Grush.  I hope people are encouraged.  You know, also by you.  Look, man, if you were to die tomorrow  because of whatever reason,  what do you want people to know right now?  What do you want people to know if you're just fucking on?  You are not free.  And this reality has far more to it  than you have been allowed to believe.  And God is real.
